Abhogi (pronounced ābhōgi) is a raga in Carnatic music and has been adapted to Hindustani music.
Ābhōgi is a symmetric pentatonic scale that does not contain panchamam and nishadam.
Ābhōgi is considered a janya raga of Kharaharapriya, the 22nd Melakarta raga, though it can be derived from Gourimanohari too, by dropping both panchamam and nishadam.
Abhogi is a scale that is used for compositions in a medium to fast tempo.
Ābhōgi's notes when shifted using Graha bhedam, yields another pentatonic rāgam Valaji.
Inscriptional evidence suggests Purandara Dasa was born in 1484 CE in Kshemapura, near Tirthahalli, Shivamogga district, Karnataka state.
Bhairavi is a janya rāgam in Carnatic music (musical scale of South Indian classical music). 
Ragas which have similar murchanas and/or anya swara patterns to Bhairavi include Manji, Mukhari, and Huseni.
Though a Raga called Bhairavi also exists in Hindusthani music, it is very different from the Carnatic version.
Niraval also known as Neraval or Sahitya Vinyasa is considered to be one of the important features in the extempore improvisation aspect (Manodharma Sangita) of Carnatic music.
Tanam is one of the most important forms of improvisation, and is integral to ragam, tanam and pallavi.
Kalyani is slightly difficult to elaborate on in raaga alapana due to its similarity with Sankarabharanam with the only difference of the Madyamam (Ma). 
Kaḷyāṇī has many janya rāgams (derived scales) associated with it, of which Hamīr Kaḷyāṇī, Mohanakalyani, Saranga, Sunadavinodini and Yamuna Kaḷyāṇī are very popular.
Kalyani's notes when shifted using Graha bhedam, yields 5 other major Melakarta rāgams, namely, Hanumatodi, Sankarabharanam, Natabhairavi, Kharaharapriya and Harikambhoji.
The Kafi thaat of Hindustani music is the equivalent of Kharaharapriya.
Todi in Carnatic music, is different from Todi (thaat) of Hindustani music (North Indian classical music)
The equivalent of Carnatic Todi in Hindustani is Bhairavi thaat.
Asaveri is a janya scale, as it does not have all the seven swaras (musical notes) in the ascending scale, and has a vakra (zigzag) descending scale.
Asaveri is an asymmetric rāgam that does not contain gandharam and nishadam in the ascending scale.
Asaveri is an audava-vakra-sampurna rāgam.
The equivalent of Mohanam in Hindustani music is Bhoop.
Dhanammal was born in George Town, Madras (now Chennai), into a family of professional musicians and dancers.
Thanjavur Brinda (1912-1996) was one of the representatives of the Veenai Dhanammal school of Carnatic Music. 
