(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTunes for the soul
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 442nd Purandhara Dasa Aaradhana, conducted by the Kannada Kaveri Sangham at its auditorium Kaveri, concluded on a splendid note. Haridasa Sangeetha Vidwanmani from Karnataka, and Ananth Kulkarni, who specialised in singing Hindusthanigharanaunder the guidance of Mukund Gorae, recited songs composed by Sangeetha Pithamaha, Vyasaraya, Kanakadasa and other singers of yore.Kulkarni was supported by Vijaya Panchamukhi on the harmonium, Raghavendra Gurunair on the tabla, and Sridhar Mandral's rhythms. Kulkarni, with his prefixes of brief but beautifulalapanasand elate intonation of the lyrical and musical phraseology, resonantly rendered a captivating recital. He also heeded to the listeners' request by singing achota gharana paayaliya jhankarset toteentalin rag inPuriya Dhansri. The President of the sangham, B. Prabhakara Rao, introduced the artistes, while N.Suryanarayana proposed a vote of thanks.A tributeCelebrating the 179thvardhanthiof Syama Sastry, contemporary of Dikshitar and Tyagaraja, the Tyagaraja Aaradhana Trust featured a recital of the compositions of Vaggeyakara by noted vocalist Pratha Krishnamurty of Rajahmundry at Kalabharathi. After evocatively renderingBhairavi Swarajathi, Ninuvina gathigalada (Reethigoula), Biranavaraalitchi (Kalyani), O. Jagadamba (Anandhabhairavi), Tarunam yidamma, a Tamil composition (Goulipantu)and Brovavamma Taamasamele (Maanji), Murty concluded his concert with the expansive expatiation ofKamakshi (Varali).Enthralling recitalAnother notable event among the chain of concerts was the melodiously evocative vocal recital for VMDA also in Kalabharathi by N. Ramamurthy, one of the prime disciples of the renowned music critic and vocalist B.R.C. Iyengar. Sans any show of superfluous manoeuvrings inaalapana,neravuandswarakalpana, Murty adhered to all modes of sacred tradition throughout and left an effulgent impression though he sang just for two hours. The brief but beautiful elaboration ofNadasudharasambilanu (Arabhi), Seshachalanayakam (Varali)andNamakusumamulache (Sri)and expansive elaboration ofEndukupeddala (Sankarabharanam)stood out. Veteran violinist Komanduri Krishnamachari and young but noted mridangam artiste Dhanvada Dharma Rao gave excellent support.Music and dramaThe 139th monthly schedule of Sri Saikalaaniketan, a drama association noted for its efforts in promoting poetic drama, featuredSatya Harischandraof Balijepalli Lakshmikantha Kavi last Friday at the Mahatma Gandhi Open Air Theatre in Kancharapalem (Rama Murty Pantulupeta).The major attraction was the finesse with which the doctoral degree holder Mallela Rajendra Prasada Rao, member of teaching faculty, Department of Theatre Arts AU, exploited his melodious voice rendering the versified dialogues, including select poems of the renowned poet Jashuva, in theSmasanavaatikascene to the hilt and portrayed the title role with empathy. M. Subbalakshmi as Chandramathi and many a time best actor winner Bagadi Vijaya Sai as Nakshtraka, Nandi award winner B.A. Naidu as Kaalakousika and Veerabahu in particular also contributed with their excellent portrayals. T. Dali Naidu as Kesava, G.S. Reddy as Janardhana (sishyas) and Master Dwadasi Awinash as Lohitasya, also came up with commensurable performances. Bagadi Vijaya Saradhi on the harmonium, Ella Appa Rao on the clarinet, and S. Tata Rao on the tabla constituted excellent orchestral support. The other credits for make-up, stage decor, stage management, coordination and over all supervision were well shared by D. Mahesh Babu, U.A. Naidu, D. Jagga Rao, PVR Murty, N. Simhadri, R. Kesav Raju and president of the Niketan, Chowdary Appa Rao.Dr. Rajendra Prasada Rao, B.A. Naidu and Nandi Award winner in historical and social plays in the idiom of prose, Dhavala Sanyasi Rao (former Engineer of VPT), were felicitated on the occasion.A.R.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/17/stories/2006021702160200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/17/images/2006021702160201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODY MAN Anant Kulkarni performs at the Kannada Kaveri Sangha.
p14
ss.