(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSoulful melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VA memorable flute recital has been a rarity in not only Vijayawada but also in the State. The reason is that there are very few noteworthy flautists in the State. Unfortunately, none of the dozen Government Music colleges in the State offer a course in the flute discipline in spite of demand. This has led to an almost extinction of perhaps the sweetest of the instruments. This was the reason why the flute concert by V.K. Raman of Washington D.C., arranged at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram by the Vijayawada Cultural Academy came as an unforgettable and sumptuous treat to the music lovers in the city. A disciple of Flute Ramani and an artiste with many awards and achievements, Raman enthralled the audience with his melodious blowing and technical perfection. He started with Natakuranji varnam and followed with an expansive presentation of Hamsadhvani in which he played the popular Vatapi Ganapathim Bhajeham finishing it with beautiful kalpana swaras.Next, he played Niravadhi Sukhada in Ravichanrika in an apt tempo and the Poorvikalyani keertana Gnanamosagarada with a flourishing raga delineation and crisp kalpana swaras. Raghuvamsa (Kadanakutuhalam) revealed his masterly control and break neck speed in playing the brigas. For the main item Raman took up Hindola. His creativity in raga elaboration, niraval and intricate kalpanas was unique. Samajavara gamana was played with great aesthetic approach without sacrificing the technical expertise. Violin accompanist B.V. Durga Bhavani presented brilliant versions of Hamsadhvani, Poorvikalyani and Hindola. Popular Ramadas keertana Paluke Bangaramayena, Balamurali's composition in Revathi Sambho Siva Sambho and a thillana in Sindbhairavi found place in the closing part of Raman's memorable concert. The percussionists M.L.N. Raju (mridangam) and S. Hanumantha Rao (ghatam) contributed significantly to enhance the concert. Their tani was robust and thrilling.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/25/stories/2009122550380200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/25/images/2009122550380201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODIOUS NOTES V.K. Raman's rendition was impressive.
p14
ss.