(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAesthetic blend of diction and bhava
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANAshtavadhanam &#151;  now, that's a term you might have heard your grandmother use when referring to those who had the amazing ability to accomplish eight demanding feats simultaneously. But to actually encounter a modern-day ashtavadhani, that too in the field of music, is a rarity. And when this happens to be a young artiste who has released a CD placing these skills on record, your interest is definitely piqued.Kuldeep M. Pai is an up-and-coming vocalist, who is a disciple of gurus O.S.Thyagarajan, P.S. Narayanaswami and Mannargudi Easwaran. He is also a skilled player of the violin, mridangam, ghatam, kanjira, harmonium, tabla and melodica. All these have been harnessed to admirable effect in his CD titled `Adviteeya &#151;  a unique effort,' in which he plays not just the role of the main artiste but also of all the accompanists rolled into one, a dream made possible by sustained effort, multiple tracks and modern technology. A sure contender for the record books!Different agendaHowever, this attempt seems to have a different agenda, namely, to tap  the synergy generated by  synchronisation of voice and instrument,  whether it is the tradition-bound Kharaharapriya alapana, the  magudi effect in Punnagavarali or the delicate Hindustani tints in `Vaishnava Janato.'In his full-house vocal concert at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, the slight figure occupying the stage seemed almost dwarfed by the constellation of senior artistes surrounding him &#151;  Mannargudi Easwaran (mridangam), S. Karthick (ghatam) and M.A. Sundareswaran (violin). Yet his own star shone bright, as Kuldeep set the ball rolling with Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Karikalabha Mukham' (Saveri) highlighted by clear, accurate diction.In Suddha Saveri, the kriti chosen was Tyagaraja's `Kaalaharana Mela Ra,' a once-popular composition relegated to obscurity in recent times.His forteThe artiste proved that kalpanaswaras are his forte as the 1/2-idam swaras at two eduppus romped home on the strength of aesthetically structured `poruttams,' the vibrant finale drawing much applause. The brief foray into Varali was contemplative, with the use of Vadi-Samvadi, elevating the tone of the delineation.  Papanasam Sivan's `Saranam Ayyappa' (Mukhari) acquired added sheen through the emphasis on bhava.Khambodi was the main raga, developed gracefully in the middle register and studded with a recurring melodic motif. The exposition did not dwell on the dhaivatam due to paucity of time, but travelled quickly to the upper octave. Papanasam Sivan's `Kaana Kan Kodi' was sung with feeling and embellished with elaborate neraval and swaraprastara.The mini tani avartanam with Easwaran's silky touch and Karthik's exuberance was a treat all the way, its short duration a considerate gesture on the part of the percussionists, to allow the vocalist enough time for his tukkadas. The uplifting `Aakashaath Patitam Thoyam' emerging as a ragamalika in Sindubhairavi and Yamunakalyani preceded the evergreen `Krishna Nee Begane,' the rendition testifying to the artiste's yen for subtlety.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120102530500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120102530501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIMMENSELY TALENTED: Kuldeep M. Pai
p14
ss.