(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPromoting talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VAs part of promotion of young talent, Nadabharati introduced a very young musician Narendra Saradhi. Visually challenged by birth, Saradhi is gifted with musical skills that he sharpened under the tutelage of different stalwart vocalists like Nookala, Vyzarsu Balasubrahmanyam and presently Jayamani Narasimhan. This young man has just completed M.Phil in English and is doing his Ph.D.Saradhi opened his concert with Kanada ata tala varnam of Ramanadpuram Srinivasa Iyyengar and then sang Sri Maha Ganapatiravatumam in Gowla of Dikshitar. The brief essay of the raga and swaraprastha were neat. After a couple of Thyagaraja compositions, Evarani Nirnainchirira in Devamrutavarshini and Enta Muddo in Bindumalini, he delineated the raga Saraswathi for Anuragamuleni with swarakalpana. Both the exercises were good. After rendering Intanuchu Varnimpatarama' in Gundakriya, a rare composition and Koluvai Vunnade in Devagandhari, he chose Thodi as his main melody of the concert. Sri Krishanm Bhajamanasa of Deekshitar in this was well presented with good expression, followed by nereval in two speeds and swarakalpana. Rajan's violin support and Gopalan's tani avartanam added lustre .The end pieces included a rare Jagajjanani in Ratipriya, Purandara Dasa's Govinda in Janasammodini and Sarvam Brahmamayam in Durbari Kanada.Mature recitalP.V. Subba Rao's concert also figured recently for Nadabharati. He began with Durbar varnam in two speeds and followed it with Vinayaka Ninu Vina in Hamsadhwani of Pallavi Gopala Iyer. Entha Nerchina in Saveri with a good swarakalpana filled the earlier part of the concert. After Ksheerasagara Sayana in Devagandhari, a sweet number, he chose to present Ennaganu Ramabhajana in Panthuvarali with alapana and swaram. Sankarabharanam was his main essay which he delineated bringing into focus all its beauties.The composition he chose for this was Swararagasudha that he rendered well projecting its sahitya bhava. The nereval and swarakalpna were neat. He concluded with a javali, Nenetu Sairinthune in Farazu and an Annamayya kirtana Kandarpa Janaka in Misra Valaji, composed by Voleti. Rajan on violin and P.S. Gopalan on mridangam accompanied the vocalist.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/08/stories/2011040850400300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/08/images/2011040850400302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical duo P.V. Subba Rao;(below) Narada Saradhi.
p14
ss.