(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNiceties come  to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKEndowed with a sweet voice, Vasundhara Rajagopal adds to the dignity of Carnatic music. Not carried away by the glamour of vocal eloquence, Vasundhara rose to the expectations of the rasikas  at the Asthika Samajam in the Rama Navami series.The picturisation of ragas and kirtanas brought out fully her experience and ability. She linked her musical niceties to an inner guidance without relying on hackneyed objectives. She laid stress on commitment to the values of interpretative ideals and steadfastness in adhering to them.Two factorsIf the integrity of a musician involved two factors  -   loyalty to the art he or she practises and a sense of sincerity in seeking to express the art itself &#151;  Vasundhara Rajagopal fulfils both criteria and therein lies the key to her progress.In the matter of communicative skills, her free-flowing voice directly transferred her manodharma and song rendition. This aspect was enhanced by refinement and restraint in alapana. She handled two raga vinyasas, Asaveri (`Saranam-Saranam-Raghurama') and Shanmukhapriya (`Vaddane-Vaaruleru') marked by an interplay of karvais and chiselled sancharas. The former, sung with tenderness, paid homage to the quiet mood of the raga and its sensitivity with great lucidity.As regards Shanmukhapriya, in the madhyamam and melkala sancharas there was noticeable change of pace with a clear adjustment of vocal modulation and direction.The phrasings, presented with sharp precision, did not meander.Beginning the recital with the Ravichandrika song `Maakelara-Vicharamu' and `Rame-Bharata-Palita' in the raga Jyoti, a Dikshitar composition, Vasundhara Rajagopal's effort was to capture vocal rhythm which blossomed in the Mohanam viruttam and the rarely-sung kirtana `En-Pallikondirayya' of Arunachala Kavi. The piece questions Sri Ranganatha why he is reclining. Vasundhara   tapped the bhava and the song's structural beauty.In his accompaniment on the violin, Sanjeev was quick to gain a feel of the vocalist's concert manners and followed her in ragas and kirtanas with fidelity. Nellai Baliji (mridangam) and Adambakkam Shankar (ghatam) provided laya support with solicitude.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/04/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/04/13/stories/2007041302120800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.