(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhen raags flowed like honey
p3
sVnews
p4
VGOWRI RAMNARAYANThe Kalakshetra Art Festival opted for two different styles of Hindustani music, and by performers of stature who are not frequent visitors to Chennai.From Dharwar came Venkatesh Kumar, a region that produced such inimitable stars as Sawai Gandharv, his disciples Bhimsen Joshi and Gangubai Hangal, and Mallikarjun Mansur.Venkatesh Kumar proved a worthy representative of that music-fertile soil. His raag alaap was a marvel of brevity, substance and mood evocation.He painted the distinct and distinctive colours of each raga with sure strokes, whether Purya Dhanashri or Desh. The opening slow Khayal in Purya Dhanashri, ``Ab to Ritumaan," was the unfolding of a fine evening raag with all the respect it deserved, missing no curve or contour along the highway.The modulation was as unaffected and effortless as the voice. The singer was uninterested in artifice. He had complete trust in his tradition and his own hold on its finest aspects.In the faster khayal ``Payaliya jhankar'' the raga appeared afresh. The melody was varied to look at the raag from another perspective.The taans swirled in and out. Towards the end, swara singing sported with raga hues.With its first long glide Kedar struck gold. The structure had the deceptive simplicity achieved only when the mind is ripe and the voice pure.Poignant handlingAlternating the same phrases in alaap and swara were relishable moments for singer and listener. In Venkatesh Kumar's handling the raga retained its poignancy in high speeds as well. ``Kanha re nand nandan" brought off enthusiastic teamwork, while ``Kahe karat mose raar kanhaiyya" became a taut frame for high octave singing. There was nothing staccato here. Tabla and voice were perfectly matched to ensure an unbroken, melody-ruled continuity.Pandit Raghunath Nakod's tabla was an asset to the recital. He knew just when to sparkle and when to be subdued. Viresh Hiremath on the harmonium remained unobtrusive.The mood changed with Desh. ``Kanha bansi bajao" was all romance, while the concluding Bhairavi struck a philosophical note.Venkatesh Kumar endeared himself by ending on where even the tabla ceased its beats.And kudos to the artistes for remaining unfazed by the four power failures during the recital, brief but disruptive.FOR QUIET LISTENERSThe performers were lit in soft dawn light. Real sunbeams poured down on the stage, dancing with notes, through the high wooden slats of the koothambalam theatre. With such a perfect setting for morning raags sung by Madhup Mudgal at Kalakshetra, one tried to overlook the poor acoustics.Beginning what else but Bhairav, Mudgal etched the raag before plunging into the khayal, ``Shobhe jataa" in Jhap Taal. The chota khayal ``Jaaga jaga" in Teen Taal brought swara and taan singing in accelarated speeds until everything came to a natural conclusion. Both alaap and khayals seemed to end somewhat abruptly, until you realised that what Mudgal was doing was avoiding the razzle-dazzle of popular practice. He had full cooperation from Khadag Singh (tabla) and Ved Murti Katti (harmonium).Bilaskhani Todi came next, where the slow resonant meends glided from swara to swara in honey-like flow. The khayal set to Teen Taal madhya laya showed the singer was unconscious of listeners, exploring the melody with quiet control. The tarana, which rounded the segment off, had euphonious syllables picked up for perky patterning on the tabla.The most interesting essay was of Bibhas &#151;  its two parts using different dhaivats &#151;  the first suddh, the second komal. The rhythms in ``Taru ginat ginat mohi rain gawayo" guided the melodising. The morning ended with bhajans by Kabir and Surdas. As the last lines of ``Shyama shyama" faded out, you knew this was quiet music for quieter listeners. Madhup Mudgal got them at Kalakshetra.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010602770700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010602770702.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDEFINING CONTOURS: Venkatesh Kumar and (below) Madhup Mudgal.  Photos: Shaju John and N. Sridharan.
p14
ss.