(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA big, grand treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe third day concerts in the Guru Aradhana festival of Susarla Dakshina Murthy Sastri and Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu at the Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram, Vijayawada, started with Swarnabharati&#8217;s vocal and K. Annapoorna&#8217;s veena. Barathi&#8217;sSrisaraswathi(Arabhi) and Chandrakant&#8217;s vocal. B.V. Durga Bhavani, a staffer of Vijayawada Akashvani, gave a melodious vocal concert. She renderedAnupamain Athana,Hiranmayimof Dikshitar in Lalita and an efficient ragam, tanam, pallavi in the rare Khandajati Dhruva talam.  She had good accompanists in G. Satish Babu (violin) and P.S. Phalgun (mridangam). Among the impressive concerts on the next day Anjana Sudhakar&#8217;s vocal was one. She  has a mellifluous voice and sings tunefully with ease and in neat style. The highlights of her concert wereBrochevarevarurain Khamas andBantureetiin Hamsanadam. Durgabhavani and Vijayakumar lent her good support on violin and mridangam, respectively. P. Nandakumar&#8217;s violin solo was also pleasing. He presented a fine version of Kafi and playedInta Sowkhyamani. He was aided on the second violin by G. Satishbabu. M. Umadevi and Janaki presented brief vocal recitals on the fifth day. Well-known duo Vishnubhotla Sisters, Saraswati and Krishanaveni, were in fine form for the major concert of the day. Their voices blended melodiously and they sangNinnu Cheppain a rare raga Bhooshavali,Sri Valli Devasenain Nathabhairavi andEti Janmamidirain Varali.The best concert on the next day was that of Modumudi Sudhakar, a popular vocalist and an able composer. The highlight in his concert was a beautiful ragamalika composed by the artiste himself on Thyagara, Manambuchavadi Venkatasubbiah, Susarala Dakshinamurthy Sastri, Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu and Annavarapu Ramaswamy, Sudhakar&#8217;s own guru. It was a novel item received well by the audience. Other major item in the concert wasAnandamritakarshiniin Amritavarshini also given ample justice. M.L.N. Raju and Raghuram gave excellent support on mridangam and ghatam, respectively.Among the notable concerts on the next day, a veena concert by K. Lakshminarasamma, G. Satishbabu&#8217;s vocal and senior singer Patibandla Janaki&#8217;s vocal concert deserved mention. Starting withSarasiruhain Gambhiranata, Janaki sangSankariin Begada andDarini Telusukontiin Sudhasaveri. Her smooth voice and efficient manodharmam complimented well. Another good piece in Janaki&#8217;s concert wasSambho Mahadevain Pantuvarali. On the following day concerts were given by M. Srutiranjani who impressed withNagumomu(Abheri) and the flute-violin combination presented by Dronendra Phanikumar and Vasudevan. The major program of the day was a fine vocal recital by Tulasi Viswanadh of Rajahmundry. Kafi took a delightful shape in her delineation and she renderedInta Sowkhyamanias the main item. Another good rendition wasMariverein Anandabhairavi. Dr. S. Nataraja Murthy, P. Jayabhasker and S. Hanumanta Rao lent her excellent support on violin, mridangam and ghatam respectively.On the morning of the last day, there was a big treat. Nearly 70 artistes rendered the Thyagaraja Pancharatna keertanas. Good voice co-ordination and tala precision marked the chorus.The group singing was followed by a scintillating vocal concert by D.V. Mohana Krishna, a senior disciple of Balamurakrishna.The last programme of the nine-day musical feast was a thrilling violin ensemble led by Vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswamy.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/07/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/07/18/stories/2008071850090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.