(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAll profit, no loss
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHIt is often said, "Accountants know prices but seldom values". But this chartered accountant is (in)different. She knows not only the values of Indian culture, in terms of knowledge on Indian classical music or mythology, but these also seem to have been deeply ingrained in her. Her balance sheet too is full of assets  -   a disciple (and daughter-in-law) of Anna Sri Sri Krishnapremi, a disciple of maestro Lalgudi G. Jayaraman, a captivating voice, articulate and powerful expression with just the right dose of humour. Surely, a performance by such a personality is bound to be a `win-win-win' situation for audience, organisers and the artiste herself, whichever way one looks at it. Vishaka Hari, who was featured on the first and second day of the Festival of Music and Dance organised by Sree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha at the auditorium of Delhi Tamil Sangam recently, mesmerised the Delhi rasikas with her musical discourse.On first day, the discourse was on "Sundara Kandam" and on the second day, "Seetha Kalyanam". Both discourses were to be based on the Tyagaraja Ramayanam, as said  in the invitation card. Incidentally, there is also a story on the Tyagaraja Ramayanam.Musical facetsOn day one, while discoursing on Sundara Kandam, Vishaka straightaway began with an impressive presentation of Tyagaraja's "Gitarthamu Sangeethanandamu" in the raga Suruti. After explaining why this chapter is called `Sundara Kandam', she went on to explain how Hanuman was chosen to go to Lanka in search of Sita Devi. While doing so, she also presented a scintillating composition of Annamacharya, "Mangampudir Hanumantan" in the raga Dharmavati.Vishaka also recited verses and shlokas from the Valmiki Ramayan, in the form ofviruttamsand explained these in her discourse. The ragas she chose for the viruttams included Bhairavi, Brindavana Saranga and Saraswati. These brought hervidwatin Carnatic music to the fore. She subsequently presented Tyagaraja's "Kamalata kula kala sabdhi chandra" in the raga Brindavana Saranga.  She also presented Tyagaraja's composition "Anuraagamuleni" in the same raga. Here, Vishaka intelligently resorted to niraval of the phrase from the charanam portion of the composition, "Vaga vagaga bhujiyenchi vaariki tript yousethi", revealing her manodharma talents.Apart from verses from the Valmiki Ramayan, Vishaka  also made use of compositions from Arunachala Kavirayar's "Rama Natakam", compositions of Annamacharya and even Purandaradasar to suit the proceedings, which  added flavour. It would have been better if the invitation card had avoided  specifically stating  the discourse was based on Tyagaraja Ramayanam.   Otherwise Vishaka could have restricted herself to songs from Tyagaraja Ramayanam in her discourse.  The songs from other sources were never out of context,  but it was  akin to a situation where it is announced that an alap of the raga Abhogi would be presented, but gradually the swara Ni from the parent raga Kharaharapriya itself is  introduced (not by mistake but deliberately to improvise), and  the singer ends up in the raga Sriranjani.M. Narmada on the violin and Kumbakonam N. Padmanabhan on the mridangam provided excellent support,  contributing significantly to the overall outcome.Sree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha had opened their membership around the time when this festival was organised. It is heartening to learn that there has been encouraging response from the Delhi rasikas, many of whom have become members of the Sabha recently and are contributing directly to promote classical music and dance in the capital.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011201020200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.