(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA mesmerising affair
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIThe very concept of this programme is reflected in its title  -   Swara raga sammohanam. This was an effort conceived by the well-known Carnatic vocalist D. Mohana Krishna with the help of noted playback singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, to take the classical ragas to the laymen as well as the informed ones through Thyagaraja and film song.Mohana Krishna, a disciple of Balamurali, etched a programme to acclimatise the audience with classical flavour, through Thyagaraja and film songs.  The programme  had instrumental support that is required for classical vocal concert and film music as well. The entire stage was filled with musicians and instrumentalists, including the chorus singers. It was wonderful scene to watch too. The Ravindra Bharati auditorium, where the programme was held last week, was filled to the brim.How to go ahead with this kind of programme? They evolved a simple method: First, Mohana Krishna would  render araga,  and then go forkirtanaandswaraprasthara, thus providing an atmosphere of the purest form. . Then it was the responsibility of S.P.B to choose a film song in the sameragaand render it with the same flavour.Mohan Krishna opened the show with a devotional piece,Aadiyu, Anaadiyu,originally rendered by his guru Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna in the filmBhakta Prahlada. This was inragamalikaand was treated as an invocatory for this programme. Then came the first of the majorraga-Kharaharapirya, originally known asHarapriya.  After Mohan  delineated theraga,he gave a bit of the popular melody in this,Prakkala Nilabadi, the  musical equivalent to which wasSangeetha Sahitya Samalamkritepenned by Narayana Reddy for the filmSwathikiranam, directed by K. Viswanath.The two renditions &#151;  one in pure classical by Mohan Krishna and the other filmi classical by Balu  -   drew great applause, including from  C. Narayana Reddy, who was sitting in the front row.In those days, lyric writers were careful in penning a song to be sung in classical idiom. Samudrala, Veturi, Sitarama Sastry, Dasarathi and Atreya were specially blessed with the knowledge of that technique, sometimes influenced by Thyagaraja.  TheKalyanipiece sung by Mohan, originally written by  Balamurali Krishna, in praise of theragaitself, was a rage in this programme. Theragaschosen for this occasion were popular melodies likeHindolam,Harikambhoji,Sivaranjani,Abheri,KanadaandKamas.And filmy music composers too were no less in setting them in the perfect mould of classicism. That included Ilayaraja, G.K. Venkatesh, Susarla Dakshinamurthy, M.S. Viswanathan, M.M. Keeravani, Ramesh Naidu and S. Rajeswara Rao, all of who had some grounding in classical music. Nitya Santoshini, Sridevi and Surekha joined Balu in duets.Together, there were a dozen well-chosen songs that set the house in rapture, indicating that even the general public has a good taste in classical renditions.  Chorus voices too rose to the occasion and made the evening most memorable. The show was conducted by Kalaga Krishna Mohan.A brief function was held in the middle of the programme, in which all the speakers, including Narayana Reddy, hoped that such programmes are often repeated to  keep the audience in touch with the basics of the pure classical.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120101250300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120101250301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCLASSICAL FLAVOUR D. Mohana Krishna and S. P. Balasubrahmanyam blend tradition with popular culture.
p14
ss.