(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA fine feast for music lovers
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 17th anniversary of Sri Sadgugu Sangeetha Sabha of Vijayawada was celebrated at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika in a grand manner presenting a sumptuous music treat for the audience.A superb vocal concert by K. Lahari of Visakhapatnam was featured on the first day. Lahari began her musical voyage at the age of five and received her training from her mother Saraswathi Vidyardhi, a reputed vocalist herself and vidwan Ivaturi Vijayeswara Rao.She started off with Todi varnam followed by Tulasidalamulache in Mayamalavagowla and Avadharu Raghupathi, an Annamayya keertana in Khamas. Lahari has refined musical instincts, clear, tuneful and melodious voice with ample range. Her elaboration of Poorvikalyani preceding Paramapavana of Ramnad Srinivasa Iyengar amply proved this. Lahari also rendered the niraval and swaras with good command.Rangapuravihara in Brindavana Saranga was another excellent treat. The highlight of the concert was the ragam, tanam, pallavi expertly executed in the rare Hindustani raga Mand. The kalpana swaras were also rich and precise coming to an end with an exquisite raga malika. B.V. Durgabhavani and N.S. Kalyanaraman gave fitting support on violin and mridangam respectively. Lahari concluded the concert with the Bruhi Mukundeti.Devotional keertanasOn the second day, the Popuri trio Gowrinath, his wife Gayatri and daughter Charumathi Pallavi sang with great devotional fervour. All the keertanas were well written and set to music by Gowrinath himself. The judiciously selected keertanas and ragas were Kamadahana (Reetigowla), Artini Deerpaga(Athana), Abhogivai (Abhogi), Panchabhakshyamula (Sama), Rajata Gireesam (Abheri), and Sambho Mahadeva (Shanmukhapriya). Apt orchestral support came from B.V. Durgabhavani (violin), M. Lakshminarayana Raju (mridangam), K. Sasidhar (veena), Premkumar (flute) and Chittibabu (rhythms).Sumptuous todiThe popular duo Shanmukhapriya and Haripriya presented an engrossing concert on the third day. Known for their well-blended voices and large repertoire, the Priya sisters kept the audience glued to their seats with lively music. The sisters began with Asaveri varnam and followed with Gananayaka in Reetigowla. They breathed freshness not only in presenting rare items but also their prudent method of sharing the manodharma aspects. The delineation of Khamas before singing Sujana Jeevana was impressive. Another fine item was Pahi Jagajjanani in Hamsanandi. The raga and the kalpana swaras were of high order. The main item of the concert was Emijesitenemi in todi treated beautifully with exhaustive raga and efficient swaras. The raga was richly laden with bhava-filled phrases.Superb support for the sisters came from M. Krishnaswami on violin and Skanda Subramanyam on mridangam and Sunderakumar on the kanjira. Towards the close of the concert, the sisters chose Eteeruga, the famous keertana of Ramadas. The tani by the percussionists was thrilling exercise in rhythmic intricacy. The sisters were honoured by the Sabha with the title Sangeetha Vidwanmani.Brilliance on stringThe treat on the fourth day was a soul filling violin duet by brothers Ganesh and Kumaresh. They started with their own composition Ragapravaham in Mayamalavagowla ending it with thrilling swara patterns.After playing Ragasudharasa in Andolika, Ganesh, the elder of the two, played sumptuous Begada in which they played Patnam's Anudinamunu and shared the kalpana swaras with great understanding.The majestic swarajathi of Syamasastri in Bhairavi, which came as the next item, was played with rich bhava. Manaviyalakimpa in Nalinakanthi was complimented with beautiful kalpana swaras and mesmerising Mohana alapana came before the keertana Mohana Rama, a great creation of Thyagaraja.The main item was a superlative ragam, tanam and pallavi in Shanmukhapriya executed with great efficiency. The brothers were supported superbly by Anand Anantakrishnan, an N.R.I., on mridangam and Trichy Krishnan on ghatam.Melody on sitarThe five-day feast of music came to a fitting close with a Hindustani Sitar concert by Pandit Janardan Mitta, a senior disciple of Pandit Ravishankar. Janardan is a resident of Chennai and was the first Hindustani musician to participate in Thiruvaiyaru Thyagaraja festival.He is also well versed in Carnatic music. Before each item Janardan gave an explanation of the ragas and for some, highlighted the parallels in Carnatic music.Melodious plucking and fine aesthetic approach marked his concert.The ragas he played were Purya, Jogeswari, Jaijaivanthi (Dwijavanthi in carnatic music), Malkauns (Hindola in Carnatic) and Sindubharavi. The concluding item was an exquisite ragamalika played with great melodic sense. Janardan was ably accompanied on table by Chandrajit.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/19/stories/2010111950390200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/19/images/2010111950390201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VViolinists Ganesh and Kumaresh.
p14
ss.