(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOnly emotionwas missing
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIAbhishek Raghuram's vocal concert at Abhinavatheertha Mandapam, Kodhandaramar Koil, Coimbatore, was an admirable display of inherent skill polished by sensible and steady work.He was singing for the `Eppadi Padinaro' series organised by Sri Krishna Sweets. Having studied mridangam and kanjira before taking to vocal music, Abhishek was brilliant in his layagnana.The young and energetic vocalist began with the Atathala varnam in Desika Todi,  "Chalamela Jese." Mukhari, Panthuvarali, Begada and Todi were taken for elaboration.His raga delineation was different, interesting and leisurely. He was obviously trying to reach newer horizons and received the delighted approval of the veteran violinist M. A. Sundaresan.His depth of knowledge and ability to explore new techniques were admirable but one could not help thinking that he could have put his skill to better use.While `raga' and `laya' got prominence in his music `bhava' was conspicuous by its absence. He could have exploited the wonderful potential for emotional appeal in the kritis he presented.Steeped in bhakti"Kadaikkan Vaithennai Aalamma' (Begada) is a lovely composition with the torrential flow of beautiful words soaked in devotion. Abhishek missed the opportunity to melt the hearts of the listeners. If he had done so, he would have carved a niche for himself in their hearts. "Saraseeruhaananaa Rama" (a rarely sung kriti in Mukhari), "Raghuvara Nannu" and "Koluvamarugadha" were by Tyagaraja and he did full justice to these kritis. "Muruga Muruga" in Saveri was caressing.There were the other favourites "Thaaye Thripurasundari" (Suddha Saveri), "Naanoru Vilayaattu Bommaiyaa" (Navarasa Kaanada), and "Muddugare Yasodha" (Kurinji). The concert came to an end with a thillana. M. A. Sundaresan's violin was supportive and encouraging. While he depicted the ragas in half the time, he proved his mastery and experience. Palghat  Raghu, the mridangist (grand father of the vocalist) and Thiruvananthapuram Rajagopal  (kanjira) provided solid entertainment to those who had an ear for the pleasures of laya.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060200470300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/02/images/2006060200470301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VENDEARING RECITAL: Abishek Raghuram   Photo: M. Periasamy
p14
ss.