(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith surprises in store
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RamadeviExhilarated Tirupur rasikas almost mobbed Aruna Sairam as she stepped down the dais after her concert that marked the inauguration of `Isai Amudham-2006', organised by Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha at the Jaivabai Higher Secondary School. Many first time listeners had become permanent fans, won over by her uplifting music and cheerful temperament.Aruna's constant efforts to enrich her already rich repertoire enable her to present surprises to her audience at every concert. "Aalaavadhennaalo, Sivame" (Paras) in which Oothukkadu Venkatakavi mentions the 63 nayanmars, is an example. Before starting  "Kapaali" (Mohanam) that describes the Lord who comes on a procession in the streets of Mylapore, she sang the relevant Thevaram by Thirugnana Sambandar.She converted Purandaradasa's, "Bhagyadalakshmi, baaramma," into an awesome offering to Ashtalakshmi in eight ragas with relevant slokas and impressive outpouring of swaras.Aruna obliged her fans by singing some of her most popular songs. The abhang "Theertha Vittala, Kshetra Vittala" in a ragamalika of softly caressing Hindustani ragas made people sway.In the earlier part of her concert, she sang, "Nannu vidachi" (Reethi gowla) by Tyagaraja, "Enneramum undhan sannidhiyile naan" (Devagandhari) by Gopala Krishna Bharathi, "Aanandamrutha karshini" (Amruthavarshini) by Dikshitar and a few verses from Naalayira Divya Prabhandam.B. Raghavendra Rao's violin was very supportive and melodious. The soft and pleasant `thani' by Neyveli R. Narayanan on the mridangam and Sri Sundar Kumar on the kanjira displayed some innovative rhythmic patterns.Deeply classicalMadurai T.N. Seshagopalan offered pure classical music to the delight of the discerning rasikas, the following day that happened to be Thiruvadirai eve. All the songs, therefore, were on Siva. It was a winning team with the doyens of their chosen fields on the same stage.The very first Sreeraga varnam, "Saami nine kori" gave an indication as to what his concert was going to be like. It was high-class sumptuous multi-course feast, suitable only for those who could imbibe and digest it. The alapana in Bahudari was perfect and he presented `Sadhaanandha thaandavam' with an astonishing shower of the swaras in innumerable combinations."Sivanai ninaindhu sthuthi paadikkol maname," a rare krithi, was taken as the main piece. He wove intricate swara patterns, throwing obvious challenges to the violinist and the percussionists. Mridangist Tiruchi Sankaran put up an inspired performance. In the process, he motivated Neyveli B. Venkatesh to reach new heights on the kanjira.While presenting mellifluous music on his violin, M. Chandrasekharan was a picture of delight openly expressing his joy at the wonderful music that emanated from the various sources including that of his own.Earlier the same evening, Usha Sukumar presented her concert accompanied by Brinda Raghu on the violin and S. Raghu on the mridangam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012000250300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/20/images/2006012000250302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.N. Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.