(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich in variety
p3
sVnews
p4
VSYED MUTHAHAR SAQAFThe nine-day Vinayaka Chathurti music festival organised by the Sri Nandrudayan Sangeetha Samajam in the city recently provided a feast for the music lovers of the Rock City.The festival got off to a colourful start with the violin solo of M. Chandrasekaran accompanied by Umayalpuram Mali on the mridangam and Mohanram on the ghatam. The violinist stole the show by rendering a wonderful kriti of Tyagaraja in Gundakriya and also "Piravavaram" in Lathangi.Trichur V. Ramachandran gave a vocal recital on the second day accompanied on the violin by M. Chandrasekaran and on the mridangam by Umayalpuram Mali.  He took up for  elaboration the ragas Aarabi, Yadukula  Khambodi and Kalyani.T.V.Ramprasadh presented a vocal concert to the accompaniment of T.H.Vasantha on the violin, B. Harikumar on the mridangam and Rajaganesh on the kanjira.Beginning the concert  with "Sri Maha Ganapathim" in  Nattai, he took up Kharaharapriya for raga elaboration and followed it up with Tyagaraja's "Chakkaniraja."O. S. Thiagarajan began with  "Pahi Pahi Bala Ganapthi" in Hamsadhwani and later took up for raga elaboration Bhairavi and followed it up with "Upachara," a kriti of Tyagaraja. Before concluding the recital, he presented a ragamalika in praise of Lord Anjaneya. Govindaraj, B. Harikumar and Mohanram accompanied him on the violin, mridangam and ghatam respectively.Flute maestro N. Ramani rendered a performance keeping the audience enthralled all through. Ramani commenced his concert with a varnam in Sriraga and took up Kharaharapriya for raga elaboration. He rendered Tyagaraja's "Chakkaniraja" and concluded the recital with tillana in Sindubhairavi.T. H. Vasantha accompanied him on the violin, Bhaktavatsalam on the mridangam and Tenkasi Paramasivam on the kanjira.Elaborate performanceT.V.Sankaranarayanan's vocal recital was marked by an elaborate exposition of  Khambodi which was followed by a kriti, "Lambhodhara."Master Balamuralikrishna gave a scintillating vocal recital and his Sankarabaranam elaboration was followed by `Enduku Peddhala,' a Tyagaraja kriti.N. C. Madhav on the violin, Trichur Narendran on the mridangam and R.M.Deenadayalan on the morsing gave an intelligent accompaniment.The festival concluded with a vocal recital by M.S. Umamahesh. His raga elaboration in Mohanam rendering a kriti of Tyagaraja ``Mohanarama'' kept the audience captivated. In equal measure he elaborated Brindavana Saranga followed by a rare kriti of Tyagaraja, ``Kamalandhaguna."Maharajapuram Santhanam's tillana in Basant Behag marked the conclusion of his performance and the festival.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092200060300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092200060301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VO. S. Thiagarajan.
p14
ss.