(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCommendable show
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANEE KUMARIt was with growing interest that the audience watched two budding artistes display their skills with surprising acumen and alacrity, going by their experience in the chosen field. Maitreyi Jayaseelan showed remarkable staying power on the flute, though it was a brief recital, with clarity and concentration as her assets. Her near-excellentswarakalpanasinLatangi, set toKhandachapu(Marivere dikkevvaru&#151;  a Patnam Subramania Iyer's composition) left the music lovers spell bound. Scaling the octaves with ease, never losing ground in terms of tone and timber, be it in heralapanaorgamakams, the young artiste was a bundle of talent. The violinist Venugopal was an ideal match to the flautist. His deft bowing reproduced theswaramat every juncture with equal precision while the percussionists outdid each other in thetani. G. Ramachandran on the mridangam was superb. His serve and volley with ghatam player B.S.V. Prasad was infectious in its enthusiasm.Maitreyi was an epitome of lucidity in whatever she rendered beginning with the customaryvarnaminNatakurinji(Adi talam). This melodic Swati Tirunal's composition got caught in the mellifluous notes of the bamboo and emerged like full-throated song. Followed byVinayaka ninu vinainHamsadhwani, her absorbing rendition lent a distinct definition to theragaboth in form, content and spirit. Thetillana(inBrindavana Saranga) from Dr. Mangalampalli's pen was a perfect finale.Rhythm perfectThe visual treat rendered by G. Suvarchala was a joy to behold. The most striking feature of the artiste is her accuracy totalaat any denomination. Such exactness and precision to rhythm is hard to behold in one so young, especially in execution of complexjatipatterns. TheDandayudhapani Pillai varnaminSankarabharanamwas an acid test to the artiste. It called for exacting and elaborate footwork technique display and also demanding emotionalabhinaya(avirahothkantitha naayika). Suvarchala was able to take up the tough footwork with amazing ease. Herjatiexecutions in different  cycles were like a seamless converging of complex, varied footwork that fell automatically into a single, meaningful pattern. This was especially evident in thejatithat followed the vocal rendition of the first song-verse.Theswara-based footwork was brief and less taxing allowing the dancer a little relief to concentrate onabhinaya. Though she did her best in expression as expected of her age and experience, the eye contact had to be more profound especially in thenaayikadelineation, which is actually not meant to be tackled by one so young. This sort ofabhinayahas less to do withhasta mudrasand footwork and more with body language, which is quite demanding.By the same token, Suvarchala was able to carry herself with aplomb emoting the comparatively easyabhinayaof theRamayanathroughJayajaya Rama(a Annamacharya composition inRagamalika). She gave a convincing episodic narration through mime with an excellent mridangam by Rajagopalacharya. Thetillanaset to Panthuvarali was a beautiful synthesis of Geetha Ganesan's vocal, Rajagopalacharya's percussion and Suvarchala's footwork presentation.The redoubtable Subbalakshmi on the violin gave a refreshing solo in the interlude with hertandanaana bhale...  (Annamacharya). R.P. Raju on the flute made his presence felt. Kudos to Jayaprada Ramamurthy and Geetha Ganesan for providing a  platform for their talented pupils under Uttaraa's umbrella, which is indeed creditable. Thyagaraja Gana Sabha played host to the performance with better acoustics this time.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/11/stories/2005111102180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/11/images/2005111102180302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDISCIPLE DUO G. Suvarchala enthrall the audience.
p14
ss.