(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith many advantages
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANThere are more than a few factors that weigh in favour of the singing siblings Trichur Brothers, Srikrishna and Ramkumar.A pleasant disposition, freshness of youth, voices that seamlessly blend, voices, excellent tutelage, careful rendition and absence of exasperating mannerisms all work in their favour. The brothers sing classical music with a conventional approach and  simplicity, avoiding any artifice.The duo's concert at the breezy venue of Asthika Samajam at Venus Colony was made noteworthy by two detailed deliberations and several catchy kritis.The start itself was with a not-so-often-heard Mayamalavagowla varnam. The brothers warmed up with "Gam Ganapathey'' in Hamsadhwani and settled for serenity with the Bhairavi swarajati, "Kamakshi Amba."InseparableThe minor and major choices for the evening turned out to be Kalyanavasantham ("Nada Loludai'') and Varali ("Ka Va Va''). Srikrishna and Ramkumar are inseparable even in raga vinyasas. They share phrases and passages without being intrusive or intimidating.The alapanas navigated through extended stimulating phrases with measured significant akaras and brigas just as frills. Therefore, the main course took the listener to the exalted realm of music both in Kalyanavasantham and Varali.Well, incidental or intentional, Srikrishna is a trifle dominant with the younger Ramkumar, following close on his heels.It should be mentioned that some of the delicate interludes of Ramkumar move the connoisseur who wants more.The brothers are well trained in kalpanaswaras. The cadence and arithmetic assemblies were smartly varied to provide lively combination with kuraippu swaras and carefully linking the penultimate segments on the jeeva swara of the raga.There were surprising less-heard compositions like "Samayamu Ye Manake'' in Kalkada and "Koluvayunnade'' in Devagandhari.The slow and soulful Ahirbhairav "Pibare Ramarasam'' came as a satisfying finale.V.V.Srinivasa Rao (violin) is a faithful and humble accompanist. He did his best in supporting the growing artists.Can there be anything more advantageous than having the father in the department of rhythm? Trichur Mohan, pleased father of the vocalists further bolstered the morale of the confident singers in the company of Venkatasubramaniam on the ghatam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042802670600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042802670601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCONVENTIONAL APPROACH: Trichur Brothers.  Photo: K. V. Srinivasan.
p14
ss.