(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe sonata story
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe story of the piano sonata has been a very special one. Western Classical Music, which is based on the interaction of many forms, has a fascination for the solo piano sonata. There are violin and piano sonatas, flute and piano sonatas, clarinet, bassoon and horn sonatas but the solo piano sonata has eclipsed them in its journey from the Baroque to the Modern age. The story begins in the Baroque era with Italian composer Domenico Scarlatti who wrote pithy sonatas like epigrams and Haiku poetry. In the 20th Century, they were wonderfully played by the great Horowitz and other lesser pianists. I am excluding Handel and Bach in this survey because they wrote trio sonatas with two instruments accompanied by a drone instrument. With years, like the tadpole, the piano sonata emerged by shedding off the drone instrument.In the classical age, Mozart and Haydn wrote some of their best music in this form. Fifty years earlier, Haydn's sonatas were thought to have been an ignored form but now piano sonatas are regularly performed and recorded by pianists of the stature of Brendel, Richter and Perahia. As usual, Horowitz showed the way to this wonderful treasure house. Mozart's piano sonatas are justifiably famous and often played. Once they were thought to be superior than Haydn's but now Haydn is emerging as a great sonata composer.Beethoven is the greatest sonata writer and his 32 piano sonatas contain his philosophy and his heart's story. The Moonlight is very famous but others are exquisite. His piano sonatas are divided into three periods, Early to which Moonlight belongs, Middle to which belongs the great Apassionata and Waldstein and Tempest, and the Late period whose gems are the Hammerklavier sonata which many regard as his masterpiece in this genre. Indeed, the last five sonatas are stupendous. Almost all pianists who have made it to the concert stage plays one or more of these. The great interpreters are Schnabel, Solomon, Artur Benedict Michelangeli, and Arrau. Each lover of Beethoven has his or her choice. Schubert poured his heart out in the piano sonata and they are lyrical. The most sublime is the last sonata in B flat and the choice is between Kempff and Richter and also Brendel.Sonatas of Schumann are just being discovered in his anniversary year. There are three and the music is gorgeous. Many regard the lovely C major Fantasia as being the finest sonata written in the Romantic age. Liszt wrote on great sonata in B minor and it is regarded as the most moving piece of music he composed. Chopin wrote three and the second has the famous Funeral March. Beethoven's opus, 26 Sonata, also has a funeral march.Brahms brings a whiff of freshness in his three sonatas and they are modelled on Beethoven and Schumann, who was his guru. But even today Brahms's piano sonatas are not appreciated the way his other music is. The specialist is American concert pianist Julius Katchen and the Romanian Radu Lupu. Mendelssohn wrote some piano sonatas too but they are not played often and seldom got recorded. The same can be said of Tchaikovsky's sonatas.It is in the 20th Century that a great upsurge of piano sonatas appeared. There was the late romantic Rachmaninov who wrote lovely sonatas which are the favourite of Horowitz. Horowitz almost singlehandedly resurrected a piano composer, Clementi, a friend of Beethoven, and his sonatas became his mission. There is also Janacek who wrote some beautiful sonatas. But the greatest piano sonata composer after Beethoven was Prokofiev, the Soviet composer. They are dazzling and difficult to play. Here too, Horowitz helped with his interpretations in recording. Now of course, many pianists are taking up Prokofiev. The composer Janacek created some highly individual sonatas and so did Max Reger.The piano sonata was originally a three-movements work. But Beethoven changed all that by using the movements with freedom in Funeral March. He changed the course of the movements. Some contemporaries of Beethoven wrote lovely piano sonatas. Foremost are Hummel who was a pupil of Mozart and a friend of Beethoven. There was also Weber whose sonatas are the quintessential romantic works creating a mystery.Piano sonata is one work which has appealed for several centuries. Even today composers are working on the piano sonata. Time has not changed its basic form nor diminished its appeal.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/03/stories/2011060350360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/03/images/2011060350360301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKeys to creativity While Mozart (left) wrote some of his best music in piano sonatas, Beethoven tried to change the form with Funeral March.
p14
ss.