(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSound mars concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VC. SURESH KUMARIndian Music Academy (IMA), in association with Idea cellular, started their 12-city classical music concerts named `Jalsa' with Hyderabad on May 27 at Shilpa Kala Vedika.The concerts are aimed at providing a platform for upcoming artistes who will share the stage with senior artistes.The academy, a brainchild of Durga Jasraj and Vikram Shankar, has been dedicating itself for the restoration and welfare of Indian music and culture. With most of the electronic media and its sponsors projecting and portraying film-based programmes as Indian culture, this effort to promote classical music on the part of the sponsor, Idea, and IMA is praiseworthy.The concert in Hyderabad featured young and talented Hindustani vocalist Sanjeev Abhyankar, disciple of Pt. Jasraj and violin maestro L. Subramaniam.The poor response to such a good event and that too, an open-to-all programme, may send wrong signals to event managers and sponsors who intend to promote classical music in our city. The trend of sponsors extending freebies apart from free entry for music and theatre activities, which was missing in this event, perhaps, is one of the reasons for this thin attendance.The concert was inaugurated by the Governor of A.P, Rameshwar Thakur.The concert began with Sanjeev Abhyankar taking to the stage. The vocalist who hails from Pune started singing at a very tender age and learnt from his mother. At the age of 10, he became a disciple of Pt. Jasraj. He follows the Mewati Gharana style.The excellent performance of Sanjeev Abhyankar made the audience forget that the concert had a delayed start. He began his concert withRaag Yamanand sungVilambitanddrutin style.Yeri aaye piya bina, a well-knowncheezinDrut, commonly sung by many artistes, was presented in a creative form by him and drew applause from the audience.He then went on to performKaahe mori baat chedat ho nandalalainraag Madhu kaunsset toMadya laya Rupak, which was a highlight of the concert. He showed his innate talent and his command over theraageffectively. He was aptly supported by Milind Kulkarni on the harmonium and Rohit Majumdar on the tabla.However, the poor sound output at the theatre failed to give the required boost to the accompanists. The next concert by violin maestro L. Subramanian got unduly delayed due to the sound system problem. Considering the long wait by the audiences, the concert resumed despite the technical problem.The maestro began his concert withVatapi GanapatiinHamsadvani raag.However, the output of the sound of violin through the system was so bad that he stopped abruptly and asked the audience whether the violin was audible, and when the audience replied in negative, he stopped playing and requested the percussionists to give solo performance. He also requested that whether anyone in the auditorium could sort out the sound and mike problem, as the theatre authorities could not sort out the same.It was pathetic to see that a "State of the Art Theatre" not having a good sound system that could suit instruments used by L. Subramaniam. Surprisingly the auditorium did not have a sound engineer on hand at that moment to sort out the problem. Pt. Jasraj went onto the stage and requested Subramaniam to play with the existing mikes and systems. The few audience, who still remained  at this stage of the concert, also requested him to perform. Obliging, he played two more compositions inCharukesiandMohanamand ended the concert. Thus the `Idea Jalsa' concert was marred by total disconnect of the sound system at the venue and in turn robbed off the performance of the violin legend, who came all the way from USA along with his young and promising, son, Ambi Subramaniam. They were accompanied by Bangalore Ramachar on kanjira, Giridhar Udupa on ghatam, K. Shekar on tavil and Satya Sai on morsing. It was a big disappointment for the music lovers who were eager to hear the maestro.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060201730300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/02/images/2006060201730302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VL. Subramaniam
p14
ss.