(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelting moments
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe singing was soul-stirring. It had the power to awaken the latent mysticism lying hidden within the layers of our mind if the audience response was anything to go by. The medium of communication did not matter in the least. Nor the profound philosophy underlying the seemingly simple verses. There was something in &#8216;Ruhaniyat' that melted the wintery Sunday night into a warm glow of mellifluous music mind-blowing dance.Though for most part, it was Sufi, Avdhoot Gandhi and ensemble's opening Abhangs and Parvathy Baul's songs lent a sort of universality to the concept of abstract devotion. Gandhi, chose to present the more metaphysical songs from Sants Baghina Bai, Eknath, Samarth Ramdas. Despite being in chaste Marathi, his diction was crystal clear that even those with no inkling of the lingo were able to decipher every line. Anadi Ambika bhagawathi&#8230;was beautiful with the ritualistic Gondhal in tow. The percussion infused the tempo to this bhajan. The Bawara (a top) spoke volumes about the universe being a play top in the hands of the lord. The symbolism is inherent in the lyric which juxtaposes the seen with the unseen ( sagun-nirgun). Gandhi recreated the sound of the top whirling in full speed till its velocity peters down by sheer tonal variations which was wonderful.Parvathy Baul's solo was compelling with her unique costume and rhythmic movements strumming the ektara balanced on her right shoulder and a dhuggi under her left hand. It was amazing to notice that her steady voice only rose as the songs passed by and there was no trace of exhaustion despite the neatly laid-out dance with light footwork. One Sufi song Nigur prem and two Baul lore Anando bazare and Paar dooba&#8230;were suffused with devotional emotion which she displayed both physically and through her drifting tones.The Rajasthani kalams by Kachra Khan and his group by now quite familiar to the twin cities' audience, were not disappointing either. The rusticity in rendition vested the songs with a streak of native beauty that is often lost when the same have been adapted to film music. The kartaal-percussionist jugalbandi was exceptional, especially the former who wielded the tiny instruments like a wizard.Haji Timmu and Gulfam ensemble took us on a qawwali trip with choicest pieces which had the audience participating with claps in response.The highlight of the evening was the Tannoura and Arabic Sufi songs from Egypt. Sheikh Abdel Hamid Alsharif, Mohd. Fargalay and others treated us to heavenly music and song, never mind the language of the lyric. Then came the &#8216;Whirling Dervishes' (long skirts) a Sufi dance form called Tannoura. It was simply superb to watch two male dancers whirl non-stop as they did feats with the layered skirt now going into an umbrella pattern, now revolving horizontally like a wheel in full motion, now forming alternating designs- for a full 25 minutes!
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/31/stories/2010123150420300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/31/images/2010123150420302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEngaging show Ruhaniyat was a treat for music lovers
p14
ss.