(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConcert with gyaan
p3
sVnews
p4
VNada Bharati featured Komanduri Seshadri's vocal at its new venue Sampradaya Sangeetha Niketan at SBH colony, Gaddiannaram. He modified his performance with a bit of demonstration trying to teach the traditional system of presenting a concert. A seasoned artiste, Seshadri explained about the intricacies of the setting of a composition and its presentation. He also spoke of the greatness of Vaggeyakaras and their composition and their intrinsic values. He was accompanied on the occasion by his son Komanduri Rajan on violin and Srinivas Gopalan on mridangam.He began with Natakuranji Varnam with swaram. He presented a bit of Kambhoji raga and rendered in it Thyagaraja's Emayya Rama with swarakalpna. Thyagaraja's Marugelara O Raghava in Jayantisri was rendered next. Kanchadalayathakshi in Kamalamanohari was neatly presented with an imaginative swaraprasthara. He then detailed the way Shyama Sastry's skill in composing and specially referred to the tala aspect of presentation. He cited his Mayamma in Ahiri as an example and rendered with good bhava. Panthuvarali came for delineation bringing out its elegance at every stage of its development. Apparama Bhakthi in Rupakam was his choice number.The swarakalpana in this also reflected his rich imagination. The major melody of the concert was Bilahari, which he detailed with excellence, while explaining the beauties of it. Thyagaraja's Dorakuna Ituvanti was his presentation in this raga and presented nereval and swarakalpana. The kriti part was rendered with good expression of sahitya. Rajan's violin followed his father's vocal output faithfully with some flashes in his own responses in all the parts of kriti presentation especially in swara and nereval parts.Srinivas's mridangam too was a neat presentation. His tani avartnam in adi talam was with good modulation. Viruthham in which he chose to sing a Thiruppavai slokam in Thodi, Kharaharapriya, Kapi and Kalyani was laudable. He then sang a piece on Andal Alwar and set it in Behag. He sang eighth pasuram of thiruppavai in Dhanyasi. &#8216;Hecharikagarara' an Utsava Sampradaya kirtana of Thyagaraja in Yadukula Kambhoji was well received. He concluded his show with a bhajan &#8211; Srirama Chandra kripala.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/01/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/01/01/stories/2010010150140300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.