(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMixed response
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe two-day fete of Sri Naarayanatheertha Tarangam (select numbers from the saint singer's nritya-sangeetha roopakam Sri Krishna Leela Tarangini) recital, organised by Visakha Music and Dance Academy in its auditorium Kalabharathi last Friday and Saturday, evoked a mixed response.About 12  Tarangams, all set to music in thekrithi/keerthanamode were rendered by Tirupoonthurthy K. Venkatesh from Chennai with the prefix and suffix ofaalapanaandswaramimparting it over all the fervour of a typical carnatic music recital on the first day.He showcased his mastery all right, but sans any clarity in intoning the lyrical syllables and concern for surfacing the expression embedded in them.Not only his effort but also that of the organisers went almost futile.N.C. Madhav (violin) and Dhanwada Dharma Rao (mridangam) providing excellent support and especially going mellifluent in the responses in their turns seemed to have redeemed the situation to some extent.Notwithstanding the adaptation of a few nuances of the modern folk coupled with none too conspicuous wielding of the cymbals by the vocalists, Ghorakavi Sri Krishna Sampath Kumar of Hyderabad, the recital on the second day reflected enough glimpses of the traditional style ofTarangamrendering. It could be more appealing if at least some instruments that were traditionally used were employed and the choral mode of exposition was employed, many a connoisseur felt. D.S. Prakasa Rao on violin and Peri Vijaya Raghunath from Hyderabad on mridangam lent good support.Music recitalAs part of its monthly meetings, Vintage Visakha, a forum for the elderly, featured a music recital by the former professor of Andhra Medical College, Dr. Nandivada Srinivasa Rao and his family members.In the company of J. Dakshinamurthy and M.V. Satyanarayana on the violin and Mehar Sagar on the mridangam, Srinivasa Rao and his  grand son Nikhil Bharadhwaj evocatively rendered compositions of Thyagaraja, Annamayya and Ramdas individually to start with. Then, with the support on the guitar by Parveez, Ravi Anand (keyboard) and Dhanunjay (tabla), both of them, besides Srinivasa Rao's son, N.V.S. Kiran Kumar (Orthopaedician in KGH), and guest artiste Geetha, regaled the audience rendering select songs from old Hindi and Telugu films . Noted light music artiste V. Rama Rao popularly known as Bata Rama Rao proposed a vote of thanks.A. R.SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/01/stories/2005070101660200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/01/images/2005070101660201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVINTAGE MELODIES Dr. N. Srinivasa Rao gave a good performance.  Photo: C.V. SUBRAHAMANYAM
p14
ss.