(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA day-long Sunday treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VForgetting for a while the economic slowdown and the recession reality, the Hyderabad audience enjoyed the day-long music show organised by Banyan Tree titledTeen Prahar,signifying the three parts of a day from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m on Sunday at Ravindra Bharathi. The hall was quite empty during the morning and afternoon sessions. Perhaps, the organisers&#8217; insistence on buying tickets kept the hordes away as the Hyderabad crowd is used to free passes.A good concept which has been successful all over, the day-long music show began with a vocal recital by Pt. Satyasheel Deshpande, a well-known musicologist and disciple of Pt. Kumar Gandharva.He started his concert with raga Shiv Bhairav set toteen taal. After an elaboratevilambit, he sang ataranain the same raga.Next was abandishinmadya layain Charukesi raga.However, it did not evoke the response expected of the raga. Madhuvanti was the next raga he chose with abandishtitledBhairan baka. He went on to sing raga Bhimplas and ended the concert with twonirgunbhajans, one of Sant Kabir and another composition of Kumar Gandharva.He was supported on the harmonium by Rahul Deshpande and Suhas Sastry from Hyderabad on the tabla.The next concert was a tabla jugalbandi by Pt. Anindo Chatterjee from Kolkata and his young son Anibrato. They both played differentpeshkaris,chakradharinteen taalwith ease. The morning session ended with a concert that again brought forth a father-son combination &#8212; Pt. Ajay Pohankar, well-known vocalist from Mumbai, and his son Abhijit Pohankar on the keyboard.Surendra Bharati from Hyderabad supported the artistes on the harmonium. On the tabla was Anibrato Chatterjee who seemed to be a little uncomfortable accompanying both the artistes.The evening concerts began with a jugalbandhi of Kadri Goplanth on the saxophone and Ronu Mazumdar on the flute. Both of them showed absolute mastery of their respective instruments.They began with raga Hamsadhvani and thealaapwas well-received by the audience.Thealaapagain was pleasing and thetani avaratanamby the percussionists B. Hari Kumar on the mridangam and Ramdas Palsule on the tabla was perfect.Ashiwni Bhide Deshpande chose raga Marwah, an evening raga known for its low octave notes, and best suited for male singers, but Ashwini proved her worth by singing the raga with utmost confidence and ease.The final concert of the day was by sitar maestro Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan, who mesmerized the audience with his mastery over the instrument. The artiste was given a standing ovation.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/27/stories/2009022750570300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/02/27/images/2009022750570301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPt. Satyasheel Deshpande
p14
ss.