(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRhythm divine
p3
sVnews
p4
VGAUTAM CHATTERJEEWhen we listen to the early recordings of maestros like Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, Ustad Amir Khan, and others and compare them with today's classical vocalists, we constantly miss the aura and the gayaki of these maestros. Amazingly, Varanasi was witness to a concert by just such a maestro the other day, when Ustad Abdul Rashid Khan of the Gwalior gayiki, came here to perform.  At 97, the eminent vocalist's presence was an honour, especially for Spic Macay, whose  Virasat Series of Spic Macay he inaugurated along with sarod maestro Ustad Asad Ali Khan.  One generally finds  musicians and other performing artistes go through   a certain debilitation due to age. Be it Bismillah Khan or Sitara Devi,  one cannot even imagine an artiste in the autumn of life being able to strike the   pure and perfect note. But astonishingly Abdul Rashid Khan Saheb presented two ragas, Mian Ki Malhar and Puriya Dhanashri, with full grace and pure classical nuances, as if he were a vocalist in his 40s.  While listening to him the other day at the Krishnamurthy Foundation, one found he enunciated the sandhiprakash raga Puriya Dhanashri with  the grace associated with the good old days, and listeners were transported to the 1930s and `40s, in the golden days of the Gwalior gayaki.Of course, this was the presentation of Gwalior Puria Dhanashri with the same accentual chaindari, gamak, layakari, firat tanas and khandani use of the Mandra Shadja. We can recall that Rashid Khan Saheb (born in 1909) had taken his initial training from his uncle Bade Yousuf Khan Saheb and then learned under  Ustad Behram Khan's traditional lineage of the Gwalior gharana. Behram Khan was the first person who established Khayal in this tradition in the 19th Century. Haddu and Hassu Khan came  after him.Rashid Khan Saheb grew up during the era of Balkrishnabua Ichalkaranjikar, Vishnu Digambar Paluskar and others. He had the advantage of  stalwarts like Chand Khan Saheb, Mehtab Khan Saheb and Barkudar Khan Saheb in the family. The extensive use of breath control and the Gwalior patterns of layakari are still his sustaining and unparallel qualities.Finally he presented thumri in Manj Khamaj and tirvata. His two students  accompanied him  in singing, and Hafiz Khan  accompanied on the harmonium. Rashid Khan Saheb presented a one-and-half hour spellbinding raga sangeet recital. His music seems pure and ideal. At present, numerous vocalists are performing the Gwalior tradition, notably Ulhas Kasalkar, Mita Pandit and others, but  on hearing the gayaki of Rashid Khan Saheb,  one realises that the purity of the tradition has been contaminated through generations and time.No doubt Ulhas  is  currently the one and only young good Gwalior vocalist, but if the purity of this oldest gayaki is flowing with Rashid Khan Saheb, one can learn and continue this lineage and heritage of the Gwalior gharana.  When Khan Saheb  presented tirvat and thumris, he  showed  a fine balance of swaras and sahitya. He  can still remember the intricate patterns of word chain  and swaras  to preserve the beauty of the tirvat, which nowadays is rarely sung.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/01/stories/2006090102120200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/01/images/2006090102120201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFULL FLOW Ustad Abdul Rashid Khan is all grace.
p14
ss.