(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCarrying on with zeal
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe trust has reached a youthful and vibrant period and the ladies who organise it have all the enthusiasm and dynamism to carry it forward. The list of artists for the festival include Neyveli Santhnagopalan, violinists Ganesh and Kumaresh, vocalist SP Ramh, vocalists Ranjani and Gayathri, Vaundhara Rajagopalan, Chinmaya Sisters, vocalists Surya Prakash and Panthula Rama.The inaugural concert was by Santhanagopalan, who is known for his musical discourses through Dooradarshan. Santhanagopalan has a style of his own; it is a populist approach where he carries the audience with him.He enjoys his own music; every phrase of what he sings, he feels and gets pleasure, not without significant amount of amusement and rather distracting body language. It is often doubtful if the listeners enjoy his music or his gesticulations.Take the ragas, for instance; there may not be much of melodic content, but the analysis is wayward, far from the beaten path and yet creates more of delight combined with conviviality. His swarakalpana exercises are distinctive in that they are richly innovative and excessively rhythm oriented; all the same they are doubtless riddles for the listener.Santhanagopalan did not include many items in his concert. Starting with begade varnam, he moved tonadathanumanisamin chitharanjani; it was well rendered. He later switched on to his favourite item nalinakanthi (manavinaalagimparadate), a tricky but yet a melodious cycle.It was in playing intricate phrases in swarakalpana that Santhanagopalan got into a technical burlesque, which, however imaginative and difficult, was a virtual conundrum for the common listener. An artist who thinks today that it is possible to impart and develop the &#8220;technique&#8221; of a singer, in the absence of close and constant association with the art itself, is very much mistaken.After listening to Santhanagopalan, what worries one profoundly is the chasm which has opened up between our knowledge of the technical and that of the &#8220;spiritual&#8221; aspect of music. The artist&#8217;s presentation of bhairavi and the krithis lalithe was impressive. Peri Sriramamurthy on the violin and DSR Murthy on the mridangam added dignity to the concert.The violin duet by Ganesh and Kumaresh on the following day was archetypal; with decades of unremitting application and by years of experience, they have built up incessant diligence and irresistible genius, of quick apprehension and tenacious memory; they are accurate without narrowness, and eager for novelty without inconstancy. By their virtues and ability they have raised themselves to distinction.Precision is their perception and modulation, their mould. The notes are needle-sharp and their place, defined. Some theatricals in live performances for large audience are a part of the game and the brothers did mix up a reasonable quantity of it with genuine classicism, which did not however defile the holiness of the concert.The concert commenced with the varnam in the raga Sri. Mohana came as the right choice thereafter the krithisrama ninnenamminanumoved regally. It was the alapana of rithigowla which was charismatic. The krithis ragarathnamalika conveyed the emotion in word and spirit.Banturithiin hamsanada was super fast, a deliberate design to introduce the major item,swararaghasudhain shankarabharana. The item had all the embellishments and the thani that followed was richly balanced.If Sathishkumar on the mridangam added grace, the accompaniment by Ramanamurthy on the ghatam was comprehensively derisory. The concert ended with a couple of uthsava sampradaya krithis and an item of Annamacharya. All in all, the concert was of a high order and enjoyable.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/01/stories/2008020150360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.