(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical homage
p3
sVnews
p4
VArshad Ali Khan offered a stunning Khayal rendition in Shuddh Kalyan when Kolkata paid a grand musical homage to the legendary tabla maestro Ustad Karamatulla Khan recently. The raga was piety personified and once again this grandson of the great sarangi maestro Ustad Shakoor Khan proved that he is one of the few prodigies to live up to their initial promise.He was all of four when he arrived as a toddling participant of a talent contest, swept the judges off their feet, left his  home in Delhi and joined ITC SRA as its youngest scholar. Within two years he emerged as a singing sensation and was hailed as the &#8216;sensational Little Ustad&#8217;.Despite all the distracting adulation, he remained focused in upholding the traditions of one of the oldest and most beautiful gayakis of the Kirana  gharana under the  guidance of his maternal uncles Ustad Mashkoor Ali Khan and Ustad Mubarak Ali Khan. The single-minded dedication of this matured vocalist, in his early twenties now, never fails to cast its spell.Sandip Bhattacharya&#8217;s Khayal recital in Miyan Malhar stood out like a sparkling jewel during a musical tribute organised in  memory of sarod maestro Ustad Bahadur Khan. Blessed with a rich, resonant voice, the young vocalist has a definite edge over his contemporaries. His introspective raga elaboration, emotive pukars (melodic phrases in high reaches) and cascading taans speak highly of his aesthetic sense and dedication to his art.Initiated to music by his mother Krishna Bhattacharya and trained by Amita Dasgupta, Sandip&#8217;s aspiration took him to various competitions organised by All India Radio, West Bengal State Music Academy and of course, ITC Sangeet Research Academy.  He came out with flying colours everywhere and won the Surmani Award from Sur Singar Samsad. The scholarship of SRA took him under the able wings of Ustads Mashkoor Ali Khan and Mubarak Ali Khan and gave him prestigious platforms in India and abroad.Nirmalya Dey preferred to tread on the tougher tracks of Dhrupad &#8212; ostensibly a fading idiom. Trained by several teachers in Khayal, he also learnt Dhrupad from Professor Nimaichand Boral, a disciple of Ustad Nasir Moinuddin Khan Dagar. His commitment and quest for more took him away from the comforts of his home. His pursuit found its destination at the feet of Ustad Zia Fariduddin Dagar, a celebrated master of the Dagar tradition. Even after several prestigious teaching assignments, fellowships, awards and titles, the process of training is continued till date.That Nirmalya is a captivating performer was evident in his recitals at Manovikas Kendra and Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture recently. The mysterious sombre personality of raga Shri, the delicate beauty of Chhayanat, the pathos of juxtaposed notes in Gangeyopaseni and Shrutivardhini, the high-pitched zeal of Sohini &#8212; all were distinctly etched either by elaborate alaps or brief aochars. Clear ucchaar (enunciation), several shades of a given melodic phrase and variety of talas made his recitals very pleasing.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/10/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/10/03/stories/2008100350090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/10/03/images/2008100350090203.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSandip Bhattacharya
p14
ss.