(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn search of  excellence
p3
sVnews
p4
VMohamed NazeerAgricultural extension may be an area of academic interest for her as she is a post-graduate from the Kerala Agricultural University. But M.P. Jayashree Rajeev has devoted herself to Carnatic music and devotional songs after her debut as a Carnatic vocalist at the age of 13.Her melodious voice and distinct style of rendition have won accolades from connoisseurs and music buffs.Playback singingShe made her mark as a playback singer in the Malayalam movies, `Thattakam' and `Panchapandavar' under the music direction of C. Rajamani and in a Telugu movie, `Pandaga' under the direction of M.M. Keeravani. She has also sung for 70 audio-cassettes. She says that it was a great honour to have sung under eminent musicians such as V. Dakshinamoorthy and K. Raghavan.The 28-year-old singer received the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademy scholarship for junior artistes in classical music in 1989. Three years later, she got the New Delhi-based Centre for Cultural Resources and Training's national scholarship for Bharatanatyam. She was the `Kalathilakam' in the KAU Arts Festival in 2000 and bestowed the `promising young artiste' award instituted by the Guruvayoorappam Kshethram at Pattambi.When she worked with Kannur Krishi Vigyan Kendra for some time, Jayashree tapped her musical skills to become a music director. She composed the music for traditional songs related to agriculture, which she sang along with her husband Rajeev. The songs were released in a cassette titled `Vayalkili'.Jayashree says that she continues to learn from musicians with a rich repertoire as she wants to develop an inimitable style of singing.Jayashree began learning music at a very early age from a local veteran Nadaswara Vidwan Pathur Srinivas, who was a disciple of the late Tanjore Rajarathnam Pillai, a nadaswara maestro. Ten years under the guru helped her explore her musical skills. She acknowledges that her training under Nedumangad Sasidharan Nair, a renowned singer in Kozhikode, helped her refine her skills and improve her style. At present, Jayashree is a disciple of  Thamarakkad Govindan Namboothiri, an accomplished singer.Violinist and dancerA B-grade artist (Carnatic vocal) of All India Radio, Kozhikode, Jayashree is also a violinist.  She learned to play the violin from veteran violinist T.S. Babu who used to accompany her during her concerts.  She is also a good dancer having undergone training under well-known dance teachers like Natyakalaratnam P. Shrinivasan, Kalamandalam Saraswathi and Vinodini.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/16/stories/2005121601240300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/16/images/2005121601240301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDEVOTED TO MUSIC: M.P. Jayashree Rajeev.
p14
ss.