(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VM.S. Sheela, one of the noted vocalists of Bengaluru, performed at the Thyagaraja Jayanthi festival organised by Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University at its auditorium, last week.She was accompanied by Mangalampalli Suryadeepti on violin and Nemani Somayajulu on mridangam.Sheela's concert was one of the best among the concerts listed in the festival, because of her dedicated approach, seriousness and for her lucid output of Sahitya.The audience enjoyed the lyrical flavour of Thyagarja kritis. She sang them in the right spirit with perfect phrasing of Telugu words. Sheela opened with Chalamela, a Darbaru raga varnam which she did it in two speeds then went for Thyagaraja's Tulasi Dalamulache in Mayamalavagowla, the first symbolic version on display for her pure sahitya expression. Her nereval at Sarasiruha was a real Sahitya prasthara.Later she presented Nanubrova Neekinta Tamasama in Abhogi that she rendered with dramatic impact. Ghanudevvado Dasarathe in Malayamarutham of Patnam figured next.She gave a brief sketch of the raga and the nereval she presented at a beautiful line of Thyagaraja Vara maddela talaadi Tambura veena vadyamulu jerchukoni, which is a description of the instruments that go with the kriti rendition, was a real sahitya beauty. That is how and what the nereval is meant for &#8212; a detailed sahitya expression that Sheela rightly projected.After Rama ninne Nammiyunnanu in Husseini, presented along with swarakalpana, Sheela went for a Suddhasaveri number Kalaharanamelara displaying a good vocal swing in Pallavi presentation adding to the melodic output.After Yetijanmamidi in Varali she went for Nee kelanaya Raghuramachandra in Kadanakutuhalam of Mysore Vasudevachar.Thodi was Sheela's main raga essay that was in display of her manodharma in the delineation of the raga.Kaddanuvariki, her choice in this was presented with good expression, taking up nereval presentation at the line Niddura Nirakarichi. The swarakalpana too was a picture of her imagination at play.Sheela concluded her show with a Purandaradasa kirtana and an Ashtapadi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/20/stories/2011052050090300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/20/images/2011052050090301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSheela.
p14
ss.