(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA form and one's own content
p3
sVnews
p4
VMEGHA RUPA"Music is something to learn as long as you are alive," says the acclaimed vocalist, T. S. Satyavathi, despite the great heights she has attained in the field. She has gone a long way in designing her life in a way that aids her quest of genuinely expressing her feelings through her music sans imitation or superficiality. With immense pride and respect, she owes her accomplishments to her gurus in every field that she has excelled in.Having started to sing at two, when most children are just about beginning to talk, she was trained by her sister Vasantha Madhavi and then went on to learn from one of the greatest Carnatic musicians, R.K. Srikantan. Besides being bestowed with a guru of this stature, her knowledge, love and expertise in the field of Sanskrit and the art of playing the mridanga has enabled her to incorporate finesse into her music.T. S. Satyavathi went ahead to do an M. Phil and a Ph.D in Sanskrit bolstered by her academic and music-oriented family.Shastra(theory), she says, is the backbone ofprayoga(practice). An understanding of the meaning of the compositions, their diction, the context of their creation,  add strength and quality to the presentation. With this academic approach, she has judiciously and logically blended her knowledge of Sanskrit and shastra into practical presentation. This is what she calls "musical logic". In addition, Prof. B.V.K. Shastri introduced her to the greatness of musicology. It was a time when there was a great demand for mridanga artistes, T. S. Satyavathi although proficient in the field, was never tempted to pursue it. Instead, she simply incorporated the sense of laya (rhythm) that she learned from her guru Bangalore K. Venkatram into her vocal music, which is evidently her true calling.T. S. Satyavathi is sensitive as a performer. A performer is not just an entertainer, but also automatically takes on the role of a teacher and has a huge responsibility to elevate the audience, giving them some message to take home.  She believes that the gap between the audience and the performer should be bridged. "There must be nothing secretive about a performance. If we succeed in this, there will soon be an audience so discerning that nothing in a concert will go unnoticed."Satyavathi believes that popular taste is determined largely by the performer. This boils down to the importance she gives to the kind of "person" that she is, along with the "performer" that one sees on-stage. T.S. Satyavathi is a person who holds unwavering principles and lives by them. Even in musical terms, a field that is largely dominated by men, she stays unaffected by the discrimination. "I always took pride in being a girl, besides, the realm and scope of my activities have always been wider than that of a boy," she says proudly.Thinking about the past, present and the future of music is part of her life. The fantastic talent of the youth today, the opportunities, exposure and access to all kinds of music has definitely widened the range and scope of their knowledge of the world of music. At the same time, she fears that the youth who are in a hurry for popularity and recognition, might become complacent and content with whatever they know, as against the perseverantsaadhanathis art demands.Another phenomenon we see today is the reckless mixing of the genres of music. With due honour and respect to every form, she opines that each kind of music has an individual personality of its own and must be appreciated within the sphere of appeal of that particular genre itself and not be extended to the other forms. Thus, to maintain a balance between popularity and retaining the pristine value of Carnatic music, is the biggest predicament every musician faces today.While trying to combat change is futile, one must move on, but be judicious enough to retain ones roots firmly. "If everything is yours, then what is your own?" she asks rhetorically.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080402240200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080402240201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VJUDICIOUS  Satyavathi: `If everything is yours, then what is your own?'
p14
ss.