(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEnthralling recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VSankar NThe vocal concert of Visalakshi Nityanand, Chennai, held on the premises of Lord Vigneswara Temple, Thali, Kozhikode, as part of the Prathishta Mahotsavam, stood out for her good selection of kritis and her powerful rendition.Daughter and disciple of Trivandrum R.S. Mani (who was a disciple of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer) and also the disciple of Sangeetha Kalanidhi T.K. Govinda Rao, Visalakshi started her concert with the Abhogi varnam of Patnam Subramanya Iyer, `Evari Bodhana.' Then she rendered `Sidhivinayakam Anisham...' a Dikshitar kriti on Lord Ganesha in Chamaram (or Shanmughapriya), set to Rupaka thalam. Theswaraprastharaat `Prasidha Gananayakam' was instantaneous and challenging.`Arul mukha adimaye,' a small song in Sudhasaveri was sung too fast.Slow and elegant tempoThe next song was `Ganamoorthe Srikrishna Venu' in Ganamoorthi, akritiattributed to Thyagaraja, but believed by scholars to be incorrect. Its slow and elegant tempo evidently showed that she was adept at singing both swift and slow tempos.In her Bahudarialapanashe traced the raga subtly; simultaneously bringing out its quintessence. The kriti selected was Thyagaraja's `Brova bhaarama Raghu Raama.'A smallalapanaof Bhairavi was followed by the grand swarajathi of Shyama Sastri, `Kamakshi Anudinamu' in Misrachapu. It was an excellent tribute to Shyama Sastri on his Jayanthi day. `Vara shikhi vahana... ' in Supradeepam, a rare kriti credited to Thyagaraja, was followed by Dwijavanthi kriti of Dikshitar, Chetasri Balakrishnam, which was sung full ofbhavam.After a brisk singing of Varanarada in Vijayasri, Visalakshi chose Madhyamavathi for the mainalapana. Portraying a traditional Madhyamavathi, she chose `Palinchu Kamakshi' of Shyama Sastri, rightly expected by all. It was followed by thethani, Aadhi thalam, starting from the `Samam.'The final pieces were the ragamalikai, Barokrishnayya, Viruthams in Kanada, Hamirkalyani and Nalinakanthi, followed by athirupugazhinaadhithalam. Powerfulshaareeramand voice are the trademarks of Visalakshi's music, something rarely seen among female musicians today.Even thegamakaswere strong, with touches of Hindustani style.With her trained and perfect voice, all thesangathiscame out clearly. Her flawless diction and proper linking of words with the thalam is on account of her profound knowledge of the lyrics.On the mridangam, Kondunthirippily Parameswaran, a disciple of Moorthy, did a good job.  His accompaniment, especially for theswarajathi, was filled with the trademarkmukthayippusandtheermanamsof the Moorthy school of mridangam. Kovai Suresh, on the ghatom, never failed to rise to the occasion and pleased the audience with the sweet timbre of the clay pot.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/13/stories/2005051302470300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.