(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMuch more than technique
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANIn the current scenario, several non-traditional instruments are being adapted to play Indian classical music in concert, to the point where it has ceased to be a novelty. However, to rise above mere mastery over technique to a level where the quality of music testifies to a degree of success in conveying the intrinsic flavour of the genre selected,  is an achievement that requires dedication. In this regard, R. Adhithi, whose biodata announces that she is the first female instrumentalist and second in the country to perform Hindustani classical music in concert on the keyboard, gave a creditable recital.The young artiste, a disciple of sitar exponent Pt. Janardhan Mitta, swept through raag Kirvani with nimble-fingered ease. The technique called for the artiste to avoid dwelling overlong on sustainable notes, instead focusing on a rapid trill that was representative of gamak.Sawal-jawabA sense of mellowness permeated the exposition; the gat (teen taal) witnessed a transition from medium to faster tempo, enabled by commendable sleight of hand, while the drut included a sawal-jawab between keyboard and tabla.The lyricism of raag Kalavathi was harnessed in the alaap, jod and jhala, the soothing tinkle of melodious permutations creating a tone reminiscent of the santoor. The madhya lay and drut gat employed devices such as the echoing play of phrases in successive octaves to convey an impression of variation. The layakari was kept simple and effective, a feature further heightened by the unobtrusive yet telling support from the tabla artiste.The artiste explained that the choice of the pentatonic raga Sallapam, a derivative of Vagulabharanam, was an unusual one and proceeded to etch a brief alaap and gat (ek taal) that flowed in a silvery cascade. The ensuing sawal-jawab in this segment had greater cogency. Jain Painadathe's tabla accompaniment was a valuable asset to Adhithi's efforts. The percussionist deployed rhythm with keen anticipation, exercising a subtlety whose object was to lend gentle support to the main artiste, while applying momentum and thrust whenever necessary.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032301570400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032301570401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCREDITABLE: R. Adhithi.
p14
ss.