(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTunes of the trinity
p3
sVnews
p4
VSoon after his recital at ITC Sangeet Research Academy, 20-year old Vivek Sadasivam gave another grand Carnatic vocal concert at the Guruguha Sangeet Sammelan. But this time it was preceded by his parent's enchanting solo recitals. His mother Revathi is a well-known veena exponent and his father A. Sadasivam, a renowned vocalist, is also the grandson of veena vidwan A. Ananthakrishna Iyer &#8212; the founder of Guruguha Gana Vidyalaya, Kolkata. It was Sadasivam's father who initiated and groomed the triad blessed with striking musical talent and good looks. They talked about their passion with disarming simplicity.Revathi, they say two artistes cannot stay under one roof: but you are three! Since most of the sacrifice is expected from a woman, how do you handle a complex instrument with such &#233;lan?Yes, veena is a difficult instrument. I was greatly inspired once I listened to my guru and father-in-law, Anantharama Iyer and realised what a melodic, malleable and magnificent instrument veena is. I have thereafter relentlessly pursued my passion and tried to imbibe the finer nuances for the sheer delight it offers in return. It is not an easy task combining my daily chores, taking classes, practising veena and at the same time supporting Vivek and my husband in nurturing their music. I willingly adjust my schedules as I derive greater pleasure when they perform well. It not only offsets all the pressure we undergo but helps us to bond better and grow together.Sadasivam, do you practise and perform as a family?Yes, we have given several performances together. One such recital was at Kanchi Mutt in Kanchipuram before the Sankaracharya recently. We also gave a musical discourse titled &#8216;Lalithopagyanam' (kritis related to Devi Mahaatmyam composed by Muttuswami Dikshitar) early this year wherein all three of us performed together. A Sanskrit scholar assisted us by explaining the meanings of the lyrics. This concept was very well appreciated and connoisseurs wanted us to give more of such thematic programmes.But to evolve as soloists we generally do not practise together. Also, I avoid going on official tours before concerts. Whoever in the family has an immediate concert gets priority over others in timing for practice. However, when Vivek has a concert or we sing duet or Revathi joins us as veena accompanist, we enjoy practice together.How have you maintained such simplicity in this era of packaging?I guess our sincerity; word of mouth recommendations and above all the blessings of our gurus have kept us afloat in these days of cutthroat competition without going out of the way to solicit concerts. With the continued support of the music lovers and God's grace, we will carry on with our cherished desire of spreading anandam (bliss) through our music. We are in the process of having a website to be in touch with our admirers and friends.Vivek, how do you manage to continue with music while pursuing an engineering degree?Whenever possible I seek the solitude of my hostel room for music. Besides practice, listening to the music of stalwarts regularly is part of my routine and a great help. When at home in Bangalore, I learn from my parents and also train with Vidwan R.N Thyagarajan and Sri Arjunan (mridangam) to upgrade my skills as a complete musician.Do you plan to straddle parallel careers?Like father, I would like to carry on with the right blend of both &#8212; my professional career as well as my music. I already have allocated a definite portion of my time for music &#8212; my passion.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/19/stories/2010111950650300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/19/images/2010111950650303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVivek
p14
ss.