(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWomen of substance
p3
sVnews
p4
VLady mridangam artistes &#8211; that too of high standard -- are rare. And, if any artiste established herself as a top class mridanga vidushi and bagged innumerable honours and awards, including the prestigious Kendra Sangeet Natak Award from the President, she deserves special mention.Dandamudi Sumathi Ramamohan Rao, who received the Kendra Sangeet Natak award from President Pratibha Patil for the year2009 last week, hails from a family of musicians and her first guru was her father Late Nidumolu Raghavaiah. She received her advanced training from renowned vidwan and husband Dandamudi Ramamohan Rao, who was an A-Top grade artiste of Akashvani. Sumathi has many other achievements to her credit as well. The celebrated couple became the only top grade mridangam duo in the country. Sumathi got herself elevated to the level of a solo mridangam performer by sheer dint of practice under the guidance of her husband.The Laya Vinyasam concert given by her in Bhopal in 1996, her participation Tala Vadyotsavam in Bangalore along with her husband and her accompaniment with Padma Vibhushan Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna were fitting testimony to her talent. Sumathi received the `Best Mridangist Award' thrice from the Madras Music Academy and was also conferred with titles like `Mridanga Siromani', `Mridanga Laya Vidya Sagara, `Sunada Sudha Nidhi'. The Kendra Sangeet Natak Academy award was the latest feather in her cap.Violin virtuosoBorn into a family of reputed musicians, Krishnaveni was initiated into violin and vocal by her mother Lalita, and received intensive advanced training from &#8216;Sangeeta Sahitya Kalanidhi' Late Sriman N.Ch.Krishnamacharyulu, an erudite scholar in music and illustrious guru.Krishnaveni is also an accomplished vocalist. As one of the Vishnubhatla Sisters, she along with her elder sister Saraswathi gives highly appreciated vocal duet concerts. Krishnaveni and Saraswathi gave their duet concerts all over the country and received accolades. Krishnaveni's performances on violin are marked by rich melody and depth of musical knowledge. She accompanied many senior vidwans and received a merit scholarship from the Central Government, Millineum Ugadi Puraskaram, `Woman of the year' award from Round Table Charter and many more awards and accolades. The latest feather in her cap is receiving A-Top grade in Akashvani, thus achieving the rare distinction of being the only lady violinist in Andhra Pradesh to secure this grade.She accompanied distinguished vidwans like Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, T.R.Subramanyam, Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Mani Krishnaswamy, Sikkil Sisters, and Sudha Raghunathan among others.A science graduate and a triple dipoma holder in violin, vocal and veena, Krishnaveni is presently working as a lecturer in G.V.R.Government College of Music and Dance, Vijayawada.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/29/stories/2010102950600200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/29/images/2010102950600201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKrishnaveni.
p14
ss.