(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAll sound and fury
p3
sVnews
p4
VOne area that has not received much attention in the field of music in India is the quality of acoustics in auditoria. The general assumption is  that all that is required for a concert is to set up the sound system with mikes and loud speakers and everything is taken care of.Once upon a time, a single mike used to be placed in front of the main artist.  Later, the accompanying artists started insisting on separate mikes for themselves.An extreme version of this demand is the mridangam player wanting two mikes, one on either  side of the instrument. Experts differ on the desirability of this practice from the acoustics point of view. In course of time, monitors were placed on the dais before the artists so that they could hear them performing.A development in recent years is the increasing insistence of many of them to raise the decibel level of the system. It has reached such an atrocious level that it is considered a menace to the listening pleasure of the audience. An intense debate is going on under the section &#8220;Roses and Thorns&#8221; in a leading website (www.narthaki.com) on the point made in this connection by a Western aficionado of Indian music.He says that amplification is killing live music. His caustic remark was occasioned by his experience in attending the concert of one of our leading musicians in New York.In the distant past maestros of Carnatic music, both vocal and instrumental, performed before large audiences without mikes. One of the casualties of loud music is the disappearance of vallinam and mellinam (hard and soft intonation, respectively), which are among the ornamentations of Carnatic music. And often, the percussion artist dominates so much so the voice of the singer is drowned.The situation in respect of dance recitals is no better. In the West, the audio-technician for a dance performance participates in some of the early rehearsals to learn the sequence of movements that make up each composition and to take notes on each cue or change in accompaniment. Sound cues include changing volumes, fading sound in and out and turning accompaniment on or off. In India such ideas are unknown. The volume is at a uniform level with no modulation to suit specific occasions.The following are some of the points that emerged at a music seminar organised recently by the Sangeet Research Academy and others in Mumbai, one of the sessions of which related to &#8216;Acoustic environment &#8211; relating to performance and listening (auditoriums, halls and the use of amplification system).&#8217;1. Our auditoria are multipurpose in nature covering music, dance, public speeches, drama, etc. Each one of them calls for specific acoustic and amplification requirements that are not met currently. Equally important is the fact that every musical instrument has its own acoustic needs, which the person in charge of the sound system should be aware of.2.  Often discarded loud speakers substitute for monitors resulting in a poor quality of feedback. In the West, artists use in-the-ear monitors.  Though costly, if they are used,  the artists are not likely to ask for raising the volume of their music.3. This writer pointed out that till about the early years of the last century the music concerts held in the temples of South India had no amplification arrangement. He had seen large gatherings in the huge outer prakara (passage) of Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple listening to singers in silence. The experts on the dais agreed with his suggestion that the acoustic properties of the mantaps and open air passages/auditoria in the temples should be studied to draw useful lessons.Given the costs, the setting up of auditoria with natural acoustics, is a long-term objective. In the meantime attention should be directed towards improving the existing arrangements for amplification.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/20/stories/2009032051290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/03/20/images/2009032051290301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNATURAL AMPLIFICATION: Temples make perfect concert halls.
p14
ss.