(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelange of raagas
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Karthikeya Gaana Sabha celebrated its first anniversary at Ravindra Bharathi with a grand vocal performance by Malladi Narayana Sharma. He is the younger brother of Malladi Suri Babu and the disciple of Volleti. He was accompanied by his son and disciple Malladi Yamuna Raman along with Dinakar on violin, Vasu on mridangam and Chandrakanth on ghatam. The sabha has successfully completed its first year organizing regularly monthly concerts at different venues in Hyderabad and adhering to its objective of promoting carnatic classical music in the city. Malladi Narayana Sharma has a melodious voice and his strength lies in rendering a strong ragaalapana .He began his concert with a thodi varnam eranapai ina and a steady kalapramanam with rich ragam set the momentum of the concert. A brief alap of kalyani by his son for deekshitar's ganapathe along with swarakalpani was appealing. Ambha sourambha in arabhi from thanjavore chinnaiah's composition, was neatly rendered. Suddha dhanyasi was taken for an elegant expansion by Narayana Sharma. Subramanyena rakshitoham was also rendered beautifully. Lalitha was the next raga that was performed with all its required sangathis. Syamasastry's naanubrova lalitha in viloma chaphu was presented well.Hamasanadam was chosen for a detailed raga alapana with the noted bantureethi koluvu and interesting swarakalpana .Bhairavi took the center stage and the artist explored the raga in vistaram with soukhyam.The rendition maintained the beauty of the ragam throughout. Thyagarar's mighty composition Ikkannu brova kunna in vilamba adi talam with kriya edduppu was sung in a precise kalapramanam, which enthralled the audience. The neraval and swaram was in proportion. Dinakar enriched the concert with his apt responses and catchy phrases of the ragam. The percussion duo lent excellent support with a sweet tani in adi. The concert was concluded with a soothing sama ragam by Patnam's Maruvakane. Adideva in sindhubhaiaravi and nagavulu nijamane nammeda in Yamuna kalyani were rendered with great feel.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/26/stories/2010112650290200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/26/images/2010112650290201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical Night Malladi Narayan Sharma performing at the concert.
p14
ss.