(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusically forever
p3
sVnews
p4
VLegendsMellisai MannargalViswanathan - RamamurthySaregama India LimitedCD (Price Rs.1000)Observing a hip college goer recently, swinging to the rhythm of `Ponnondru Kandaen,' a1962 hit of the renowned composers M. S. Viswanathan and T. K. Ramamurthy, you realised the veracity of the dictum that real works of art will live forever. The twin emperors of Tamil cine music who held sway from the 1950s for nearly two decades have been rightly honoured with an exclusive five-CD pack of their works in Saregama's well-known Legends series.Including all the songs from their vast repertoire of more than 1,740 films is a nigh impossible task. Saregama has picked a few gems to treat ears yearning for true melodies. The duo's debut with N. S. Krishnan's `Panam' (the opening number in the collection) has the lyric of the yesteryear great, Kannadasan, thus setting in motion the historic MSV-Kannadasan association. Even today you see Viswanathan getting emotional whenever he mentions his favourite poet-lyricist who is no more. Each piece the combo worked on remains an exquisite exercise in healthy competition between words and tunes. When will we ever get to listen to such melding of lyric, emotion and music again? The very thought makes Saregama's offering special.Scintillating varietyThe first CD has a mellifluous miscellany of voices from the soft, gentle, romantic strains of A. M. Raja, Chandrababu and P. B. Sreenivos to the full-throated T. M. Soundararajan and Sirkazhi Govindarajan, and that master of high octaves, T. R. Mahalingam. Their evergreen duets with of Jikki, P. Susheela and MLV dominate the segment. Incidentally, isn't the hummer in the famous `Paalirukkum ... ' song (from `Paava Mannippu') MSV himself? The inlay card attributes it to P. B. Sreenivos!Among the nearly 100 euphonious refrains included, it's tough to single out one or the other as the best. Citing a few mesmerising pieces that combine with ingeniously used violin bits (`Paalvannam ... '), excellent notes on the flute and innovative beats (as in `Paesuvadhu Kiliyaa ... '), is however possible. Surely the precious pack deserves a better-drafted, error-free booklet.Very conveniently compiled in chronological order for the most part (The scintillating C. S. Jayaraman - P.Suseela duet Vinnodum Mukilodum ... ' placed last in CD No. 5, is more an exception), the collection allows you to find the songs of your choice pretty easily. If `Thottal Poo Malarum ... ' (recently remixed by Rahman for S. J. Suryah's `New') exemplifies the versatility of the `Mellisai Mannargal,' `Thanga Radham ... ' (from Sridhar's `Kalaikkovil') showcases the honey-soaked voice of Balamuralikrishna and the dulcet tone of Suseela.The time-tested melodies from the treasure house of the geniuses will remain a Lucullan feast for connoisseurs, and an inspiration for up and coming composers. (At least they should!)MALATHI RANGARAJANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/16/stories/2006061600600200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/16/images/2006061600600201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMellisai Mannargal
p14
ss.