(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe sum of two
p3
sVnews
p4
VEver since the Renaissance period, composers have come in two by two. This has given researchers an ability to contrast and compare. I shall begin with the great Renaissance duo of Palestrina and Orlando Lassus. They were both masters of polyphonic, a cappella music. No instruments, only voices. They died in the same year, 1593. The two greatest masters of Baroque music, Handel and Bach, were born in the same year, 1685. Bach came into a musical family while Handel's family hated music. Handel travelled widely and was a cosmopolitan man while Bach only moved in the small towns of Germany. Handel never married while Bach had two wives and quite a few musical sons. In their old age they both became blind and were operated upon by the same physician unsuccessfully. Handel was buried in Westminster Abbey, Bach in a humble grave. Knowing these facts help in putting their lives in perspective.We come now to Haydn and Mozart. They were great friends and Haydn, who was 30 years older to Mozart, was like a father figure to Mozart. Mozart dedicated his best string quartets to Haydn and they have come to be known as the &#8220;Haydn Quartets&#8221;. Haydn paid eloquent tribute upon receipt of the dedication saying that Mozart was the greatest composer he has known. When Mozart died Haydn was in London and he dedicated the slow movement of his Symphony No. 98 to Mozart.Beethoven and Schubert made a wonderful duo, so different yet always mentioned together. Schubert hero-worshipped Beethoven as they both lived in Vienna. Schubert would go to the coffee house which was Beethoven's favourite haunt and would just stare at him, too timid to speak. One day, Schubert picked up courage to visit Beethoven in his house but the servant threw him out. He was at Beethoven's death bed and was a pall bearer at his funeral. One year later, Schubert himself died.Piano connectionLiszt and Chopin's connection was the piano. Liszt was a generous man and paid handsome tribute to his young contemporary. But Chopin was mean about other pianists and did not respond to Liszt's music. Liszt arranged that Chopin and the novelist George Sand meet. They did and Sand became Chopin's constant companion and nursed Chopin was consumptive. If Liszt had not opened to Chopin the door to Paris's sophisticated musical circle Chopin would not have got the pupils he did and probably died even earlier through poverty. Liszt was present at Chopin's funeral but George Sand was not there as she and Chopin had broken up. Both Liszt and Chopin are the first composers to champion the piano renaissance. Liszt was a bravura pianist, Chopin was all delicacy. Here too, placing the two in the stream of music history is helpful in studying both.A strange duo is created by Bruckner and Mahler. These two great symphonists were, however, totally different in style and philosophy. Yet both enjoyed a revival together in the second half of the 20th Century. Bruckner was in a way Mahler's teacher and through him Mahler traces his compositional root to Wagner. Mahler was a highly sophisticated man whose friends were Thomas Mann, the novelist and Gustav Klimt, the painter. Bruckner was a humble God fearing individual who stayed close to the church. Yet all great conductors &#8212; from Klemperer to Karajan, to Haitink and Barbirolli, have conducted them as missionaries of orchestration. Collectors and music enthusiasts have been influenced by this clubbing together of two similar yet dissimilar composers.In any discussion of Mahler, Bruckner comes up and in any discussion of Bruckner, Mahler is not far behind. Bruckner's symphonies are like craggy mountains while Mahler's is like the tail of a peacock and a Persian carpet. Both wrote nine symphonies and since Beethoven composed nine and then died, the two 19th Century romantics thought they would also die after their Ninth. Bruckner left his ninth incomplete while Mahler as his ninth wrote a song cycle. But both died as the God of death was not deceived.The final duo is the two Soviet composers: Shostakovich and Prokofiev. Both composed in the traditional mode symphonies and concertos, chamber music and ballet and opera. But stylistically both were different. Both were stooges of Stalin and ironically, Prokofiev died on the same day as Stalin. Shostakovich remained and suffered.The final word will be said by the two great French composers, Debussy and Ravel. Both wrote a string quartet, which is always recorded together. Both wrote descriptive musical landscapes like Bolero (Ravel) and La Mer (Debussy). Both composed beautifully for the piano and chamber music of the highest quality. Debussy was very popular with women while Ravel was totally asexual. His mother was the only woman in his life. Both wrote beautifully for children.Pairing of the great composers help in the understanding their life and works. And if you are a collector, it helps in balancing your collection and getting closer to the masters.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/22/stories/2011042250370300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/22/images/2011042250370301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRhythm divine Beethoven (top) and Schubert made a wonderful duo, so different yet always mentioned together.
p14
ss.