(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical obeisance
p3
sVnews
p4
VJAYARAMAN VThe recently concluded Vrischikam Utsavam at Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple at Thripunithura was marked by eight days of music concerts, both vocal and instrumental.Manasi Prasad from Bangalore displayed erudition beyond her age, and came up with a tantalising sketch in Thodi, in which there was a glimpse of Mohanam by virtue of a subtle manipulation on the basic scale, known as `Shruthibhedam.'`Sree Krishnam Bhaja Maanasam' had an interesting sequence of niraval and swaras. Sikkil Gurucharan from Chennai who sang on  the first day began with an Ada tala varnam in Bhairavi. He followed it up with  a description of Jhankaaradhwani, along with `Phanipathi' by Tyagaraja.Sriram Gangadhar's concert on the second day had echoes of GNB and Tyagaraja's `Edaari' in Shruthiranjini was sung with flair. Then it was the turn for Andolika with `Sevikkavendumayyaa' by Muthuthandavar.Gayatri VeenaVaikom Vijayalakshmi's Gayatri Veena concert enthralled the audience as the young musician maintained a high standard all through the recital, right from Tiruvottriyur Thiagaiyyer's varnam `Karunimpa' in Sahana.  She elaborated Panthuvarali with `Saarasaksha' and chipped in with `Samaanarahithe' (Saranga Tharangini) by GNB in Roopakam.Bombay S. Jayasree, who had sung here a couple of decades ago, has a soft corner for  Thripunithura since she learned the rudiments of music under the Mumbai-settled Thripunithura Balaamani.  She began with `Shambho Mahadeva,' one of the Kovur Pancharathnam by Tyagaraja; there was an unusual majesty in Shankarabharanam and the method adopted while rendering Dikshitar's Shankaracharyam.Ravi Kiran overcame initial hiccups caused by a  a sagging tempo at the outset to make his Chitraveena recital memorable.  His portrayal of Poorvikalyani through Oothukadu Venkata Subbaiyer's `Padmavathi Ramana' was followed by a lovely Shanmukhapriya.Sanjay Subrahmaniam has a gift for making a complex raga such as Thaanaroopi look deceptively simple.  `Vaa Velavaa' (jhampa) by Kotiswara Iyer swayed the audience. A well-trimmed Kambhoji stood out.On the sixth day, O.S. Thyagarajan gave a breezy vocal to demonstrate how devotion and aesthetics could be blended in  Carnatic music.  `Saami Dayajooda,' a Tiruvottriyur Thiaga Iyer varnam in Kedaragaula, was followed by a stylish `Eti janmamidi' (chaappu), composed by Tyagaraja in Varali. It was adorned  with impressive swaras.On the penultimate day (Valiyavilakku),  V.V. Subrahmanyam, a native of Ernakulam, T.V. Gopalakrishnan and Thripunithura Radahakrishnan joined together to create magic. V.V.S.  presented a serene Kalyani and followed it up with `Pankaja Lochana' by Swati, which abruptly made way for `Govardhana Girisham' by Muthuswami Dikshithar in Hindolam. The two maestros  complemented each other and there was a picturesque Kambhoji.Resonant singing by Kanjangadu Ramachandran had a depiction of Simhendramadhyamam, affixed to `Paamarajana paalini' by Dikshitar, followed by a devotional number. It was the right menu for the Aarattu crowd on the final day of the festival.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120800450300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120800450302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBombay S. Jayasree were among the musicians who participated in the Vrischikam Utsavam at Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple, Thripunithura.
p14
ss.