(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSumptuous treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VFor flautist Shashank, his flute seems to be an extension of his personality. He converses easily with the audience as well as with the flute. In a recent concert in Thrissur, he demonstrated this remarkable felicity. The concert began with a varnam in Thodi, set to Adi tala. The chittaswarams at the end were played with amazing speed and dexterity.&#8216;Ragasudharasa,' the Tyagarja kriti in raga Andolika, Adi tala, came next. Giving a detailed alapana in the higher register, he portrayed the undulating movement of the raga. The manodharma swaras were played in the opening line, &#8216;Raga sudha rasa,' with variations of rhythm patterns.Swift notesRaga Kalyanavasantham was the first major presentation. Shashank changed the dimension of the raga by alternating between his flute and a bass one. When the bass notes flowed, calmness filled the silent hall. In the manodharma swaras, he proceeded in a sedate manner and then threw moderation to the winds. The notes cascaded swiftly, the violin and the percussion keeping up the tempo. All possibilities of swara patterns were explored. The composition was Tyagaraja's &#8216;Nadaloludai,' set to Roopaka tala.Budhamanohari is not a raga that is often heard. Shashank treated the audience to an outstanding recital of Patnam Subramania Iyer's composition in that raga, set to Adi tala.Elaborate KalyaniThe main raga of the evening, Kalyani, was delineated in a relaxed and elaborate alapana. When he played in two octaves alternately, the layering effect was remarkable. He launched on a ragamalika and made detours into ragas Kapi, Bindumalini and so on. The violin accompaniment was excellent. Shashank doubled the speed of his playing, which embellished the ragam segment of the recital. The pallavi, &#8216;Madhava Sri Venugopala' followed.Shashank's mastery was conspicuous in the fast-paced swarasancharas he presented. Taniavartanam was a spirited affair. After the power-packed performance of the main raga, the Swati composition &#8216;Visveswara Darsanam' in raga Sindhubhairavi was soothing. Dwijawanthi, like Andolika, moves in a slow cadence. Shashank's speedy rendition of Bhadrachalam Ramadass' composition in that raga, set to Mishra Chapu tala, brought about a novelty to the piece.He concluded with a thillana in raga Khamas. The concert was an affirmation of the well-earned reputation of this maestro who started his career as a child prodigy.Violinist V.V. Sreenivasa Rao gave excellent support while percussionists Sai Giridhar on the mridangam and Udupi Sreedhar on the ghatam, kept the concert lively. The recital was organised by Thyagabhrama Sangeetha Sabha and Thalam Cultural Trust, Thrissur.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/04/stories/2011030451040300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/04/images/2011030451040301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMagical:Shashank's flute recital.
p14
ss.