(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpeccable diction
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIPhoto: M. PeriasamyAjay WarrierThe inmates of the Arya Vaidya Pharmacy and the general public of Coimbatore were recently treated to a soothing stream of melodious songs by popular singer Ajay Warier. His was one of the two Indian classical programmes organised by Sree Dhanwanthari Kalakshetra at Sree Dhanwanthari Arangam, Coimbatore, the other being a dance programme by Sujatha Rajendran's disciples, Varsha Radhakrishnan, Sowmiya Sundar and Saranya Varma.Ajay presented his songs in Tamil, Kannada, Teugu, Malayalam, Sanskrit and Hindi in a rich and caressing voice. He began with a sloka on Vigneswara, "Prathamam Vakra Thundam Cha' and followed it with "Gaja Vadhana Maam Paahi." "Tatvamariya Taramaa" (Reetigowlai, Papanasam Sivan) was sung with appropriate emotion and "Eppo Varuvaaro" (Jonpuri-Gopalakrishna Bharathi) brought out the longing of the devotee to see the God. He also sang the ubiquitous "Kuraiondrum Illai," the immortal song written by Rajaji.Pleasant and enjoyableSadhasiva Brahmendra's "Manasa Sancharare" (Sanskrit), "Sri Raama Naamam" (Malayalam) and "Janama Janama Ko Mein Daasa Tumhaaraa' (Hindi) were appealing. However the thrill of the unexpected was lacking. His selection of songs was meant to please the audience and please it did. But it did not gratify the listener's desire for something novel and different. It was like reading a good story with all the expected twists and turns.Tirunellur Ajit Kumar on the violin and Balakrishna on the mridangam lent excellent support. The mridangam'snaadhamwas particularly pleasing.During the course of his presidential address, Dr. Kuzhanthaivelu, Chancellor, Avinasilingam Deemed University, dealt on the significant role of classical music and dance in maintaining the emotional balance and preserving the mental health of people.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/28/stories/2006072800290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.