(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VExalted, ecstatic,   contemplative
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKGood music evokes introspective imagery achieved when sangita's inherent values and the steadfast pursuit in that direction go hand-in-hand as Bombay Jayashree Ramnath's concert for the festival of Aanandaa Foundation exemplified. Her melodic mind, fluent voice, fertile manodharma, inspirational traits and delicate dynamism made the recital at the Music Academy simply  top class.Classic in content and contemporary in appeal, for Bombay Jayashree ragas are nothing but delicious sound patterns expressed in the sanchara format and kirtanas in the sahitya framework. The impeccable application of gana-naya in tapering raga phrasings and in sahitya articulation is to her a unique gift.This factor had a major say in the elevated level of her concert. In every aspect of Carnatic music's elegance, the classical dignity and propriety were well preserved. The two kirtanas at the start "Akhilandeswari" (Dwijavanti) and "Bhajare Re Manasa" (Abheri) were sung with lyrical intensity which conferred poetic dimension on them.  The Begada alapana and song "Sankari Neeve" laid stress on the characteristic shades and nuances of the raga.Outstanding itemBhairavi was the outstanding item in the concert. The alapana was an expression of spontaneity with a plenitude of aesthetic touches to present the raga's rich image in soft idiom.The swarajati, "Kamakshi" is a frozen beauty of Bhairavi in depth. Jayashree's rendering of this piece revealed her contemplative emotionalism and subtle musical perception.  A monumental composition handled with masterly involvement. The recital concluded with "Maamava Madhava" (Nilambari) and "Kanakasaila Vihrini" (Punnagavarali) as crowning items on pensive lines.  On the Bhagavata anubhava, Tyagaraja in one of the songs hails Sri Rama as one whose name is ("Chevulaku Amritamu") nectar to the ears and ("Manasuku Sukhamu") bliss to the mind. On the Sangita anubhava, Bombay Jayashree's programme conveyed these two exalted ecstatic sentiments to the rasikas. The concert progressed on such sheer brilliance that it provoked not only admiration but also envy.The violin accompanist V.V.S. Murari and the percussive support from J. Vaidyanathan (mridangam) and Trivandrum Rajagopal (kanjira) were responsive to Jayashree's musical thinking. In particular, Vaidyanathan's vibrant and concise rhythm created the impression that laya artistry and varied patterns came seeking him.Built on patienceThe next recital was by V.V. Subrahmanyam (violin solo) with support from V.V.S. Murari and V.V. Ravi accompanied by T.V. Gopalakrishnan on the mridangam and T.V. Vasan on the ghatam. Subrahmanyam is a vidwan who has imbibed the heritage of decades built on patience and perseverance. He is an evolved artiste who gives reverential exposition musical legitimacy.In his concert these qualities formed the niche in the raga alapanas of Vachaspati ("Paraatpara"), Ritigowla ("Janani Ninnu Vina") and Hamsanandi (ragam, tanam and pallavi). The sancharas in them were an epitome of all that venerated tradition speaks about.The programme commenced with a varnam in gana raga panchakam, a composition of Subrahmanyam, which gave a solid start. But the kirtana session belied expectations. The interpretative method and swaraprastharas were dedicated to the decibel-filled mridangam of T.V. Gopalakrishnan whose play was just sound and fury.The presentation of the kirtana "Janani Ninnu Vina" was in the nature of gilding the lily.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/14/stories/2006071402030400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/14/images/2006071402030401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSUBTLE IN PERCEPTION: Bombay Jayashree Ramnath.
p14
ss.