(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLyrical experience
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVK AND V.BALASUBRAMANIANT.N.Krishnan's solo violin recital that brought the curtain down on Bharatiya Sangeetha Vaibhavam, a three-day festival held at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, breathed the eternal fragrance and perennial freshness of Carnatic music. It provided all the enrapturing components, which, in his career, he has mixed consciously.The prettiest presentation of Bilahari ("Paridaanamichchite"), a mix of tradition and singularity, spoke of his sangita anubhava. Enthrallingly wrapped, the alapana, with strands of  enchanting sancharas, turned the raga into a glowing edifice.The other raga elaboration, Kharaharapriya, was depth in delicacy. The kirtana, "Rama Nee Samana" was sublime, precious in the way Krishnan got engrossed in its mood. The raga alapana, kirtana, neraval and swaras had all the qualities of a well-composed symphony.The subtlety of Abheri (ragam, talam, pallavi)  was sweetly conveyed the violin capturing all the nuances.The appeal of the concert was no less due to the sense of calmness in Vellore Ramabhadran's mridangam accompaniment. The gentleness of his play, in association with Vaikom Gopalakrishnan (ghatam) was in full bloom. He seemed to emphasise that lyricism was as much in the percussive vision of the mridangist as that of T.N.Krishnan.Sedate and sureThe concert of Vijayalakshmi Subramaniam was featured on the second day,  which happened to be the birth anniversary of M.S. Subbulakshmi. Fittingly the Trust had placed two of her enlarged photos, with that of the Trinity.Gifted with a melodious voice and good patanthara, Vijayalakshmi Subramaniam exploited them to the maximum. The concert was built on sedate but sure lines. "Rangapuravihara" (Brindavanasaranga-Dikshitar-Adi), which was on everyone's lips in the 1960s and 1970s, thanks to M.S., , was rendered copy book style and the kalapramanam was just on the dot.Oothukkadu's "Naan Enna Thavam Seidheno" in Khamas was a bhava-filled sincere rendition.  Keeravani was elaborated in a distinctive style. The phrases were soothing and uncomplicated. The extract was truly classical. Narmada enhanced the concert with her bowing and was at ease in delineating Keeravani.``Bhavayami Gopala" (Annamacharya-Yaman Kalyani-Kandam) was preceded by a sloka in Kapi and Sindhubhairavi.  In a choked voice Vijayalakshmi recalled the day she sang the same song at M.S.'s house with the legend joining the rendition.A. S. Ranganathan (mridangam) and A. S. Krishnan (morsing) provided lively support with a well planned tani.Needs honingThe essaying of Amrithavarshini was deeply meditative in the concert of the Trichur Brothers featured on the first day. `Anandamruthakarshini' (Dikshitar-Adi) was well rendered while the swaraprastharas were mere permutation exercise than a showcasing of the raga's beauty. "Sri Kalahasthisa" (Huseni-Dikshitar) followed closely. "Gangeyavasana" (Hamirkalyani-Swati Tirunal) a piece not often heard was a neat execution while "Nenarunchi" (Malavi -  Tyagaraja) was fast paced.Pedestrian approachKharaharapriya, the 22nd melakartha, offers fantastic scope for extensive melodic phrases which could be both spicy and colourful. But the brothers' approach was pedestrian. While the elder one was vibrant and throaty, the younger one was found diffident."Rama Nee Samanamevaru" (Tyagaraja-Rupakam) with neraval in the Charanam "Paluku Paluku" was on the expected lines with no fervour. A diffident start in Sahana while presenting a Sanskrit sloka did not deter the duo from researching Hamsanandi. Surprisingly Behag figured once again in the viruttam but soon realising that a kriti had been sung in the same raga, they cleverly  switched over to Sindu Bhairavi to present "Bhaja Bhaja" (Swati Tirunal).It was also disappointing to note that not one composition of Syama Sastri or Papanasam Sivan figured in the list. Sherthalai Sivakumar (viloin), Trichur Mohan (mridangam) and Venkatasubramaniam (ghatam) were the accompanists.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092202810500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092202810503.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVijayalakshmi Subramaniam.
p14
ss.