(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStringing melodies together
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Alliance Fran&#231;aise Madras recently presented a remarkable Canadian duo: Julie-Anne Derome, violin, and Gabriel Prynn, cello. These talented young musicians have gathered honours in their own right, together as a duo, and as the Trio Fibonacci, with the addition of a pianist. Whether as soloists, a duo or a trio, their repertoire concentrates on music of the recent past and the present, but that night, they were completely at home with music of many styles and periods of music history.The first piece on their programme was by Beethoven, the first movement of his Duo in E flat &#8216;with two obligato eyeglasses.&#8217; This piece was written in 1796, originally for viola and cello, but remained unpublished until 1912. To this ear, there was a reason for that time-lag. This piece, with its humorous title, proved not to be as amusing as it promised, and while youthful, it was not youthful in a positive sense. Too long and repetitive were words that came to mind. What we heard was an arrangement for violin and cello of a piece originally for viola and cello. There are some pieces, even by the greatest of composers, which are  better  undisturbed rather than dusting them up to present on the concert stage. Perhaps the closer range of the  original viola and cello would have made this piece leave more of an impact than it did, but their arrangement seemed thin and sketchy.Nothing was thin and sketchy about their playing, however. It was refined and confident throughout. That refinement and confidence was most in evidence in the next piece they played, the remarkable Sonata for Violin and Cello by the French composer Maurice Ravel, whose most famous piece is Bolero.  The Sonata we heard was of a far more intricate and interior frame of mind, and was a delight to hear. While it had all the elegance of Ravel&#8217;s other music, it could be described in the current parlance as definitely &#8216;edgy.&#8217; Extended techniques of playing on both the instruments, difficult to perform, but effortlessly and perfectly executed, Derome and Prynne took us into a sound world that very likely had not existed before the appearance of this work, and we were privileged to hear it. This Sonata was the most extended work on their programme, and the meatiest.Prynne followed this major work with an arrangement for solo cello of a Chopin Nocturne (Op. 9 No. 2). For those who know the original piece, and it&#8217;s a famous one, we could easily hear the harmony behind his cello&#8217;s singing melody line. Derome balanced the solo cello piece with the last two movements from J. S. Bach&#8217;s solo Sonata in A minor. Her playing of this work was at once tender and commanding. No slave to the page, she played  with great freedom, but at the same time convinced us of the honesty and rightness of this, her interpretation of Bach&#8217;s musical language.As proof positive of their interest in music of the recent past, a work from this year by the Canadian composer Paul Frehner, born in 1970, was his &#8216;Oracle&#8217; for violin and cello. The piece was described to us as an exercise in minimalism, but to my ear, it was anything but minimalist. The music was extremely active, and while most sections of the 10-minute piece concentrated on one pitch insistently repeated in various contexts, the over all impression was one of great energy and excitement. Again, their playing of this most difficult music seemed to be completely secure and confident. It made me really want to hear what they might do with their pianist present as the Trio Fibonacci. Perhaps they will return to us in that configuration. I hope they do.Their last offering of the evening was truly a crowd-pleaser: an arrangement by a 19th century Scandinavian composer Johan Halverson, of Sarabande by G. F. Handel. This was most definitely Handel as seen through the eyes of a 19th  century virtuoso performer. Paganini could have been the arranger of this crazy but quite delightful piece.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/09/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/09/18/stories/2009091851370700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/09/18/images/2009091851370701.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn SYNC:Julie-Anne Derome and Gabriel Prynn.
p14
ss.