(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelange of melodies
p3
sVnews
p4
VG ayaka Sarwabhowma Sangeeta Parisht, along with Swarajhari Sabha, celebrated the 127th Jayanthi of Gayaka Sarwabowma Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu, a great vidwan and an ideal guru who tutored more than a hundred disciples. The five-day musical fete took place at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika. The festival was inaugurated by scholar T.S. Ramachandra Rao. This was followed by an immensely pleasing vocal concert by Prasanna Venkataraman of Chennai. He was supported on violin by Sishtla Nataraja Murthy and K. Sayi Giridhar on mridangam.Prasanna Venkataraman, an experienced singer with a fine voice and deep knowledge of music, began with Sahana varnam followed by a sumptuous alapana of Sriranjani in which he sang Bhuvini Dasudani of Thyagaraja. The Athana keertana Bala kanaka maya was rendered in the right tempo bringing out the lyrical beauties of the Anuprasas that figured in the keertana.A rare keertana in the concert was Krupajoochutaku in Chaya tarangini. In the main item, superb delineation or Mohana preceded the majestic of Thyagaraja Mohana Rama and crisp swaras gave the keertana a fine finish. At the end of the keertana, a thrilling mridangam tani was played by B.V.S. Prasad. Violin accompanist Nataraja Murthy impressed with his fine version of Mohana.The second day's programme started with a group devotional singing conducted by K. Annapoorna. The group rendered compositions of Thyagaraja, Annamacharya, Jayadeva and Ganapathi Satchidananda Swami with good coordination. The participants were students of Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu Sangeeta Vidyalayam.C.V.P. Sastri who sang the main concert of the evening scored with his deep and sonorous voice. He rendered several rare compositions, including Needasula Bhangamula of Patnam and Pamara jana palini in Simhendra Madhyamam. Sastri's raga delineation and swaras for Anandamritakarshini in Amritavarshini stood as one of the highlights.Simhendra Madhyamam keertana was also dealt with good manodharma. Enduku Peddala (Sankarabharanam) was the main item and it was sung with fine and elaborate raga delineation and kalpana swaras. Sastri closed his impressive concert with a few devotional songs. Good support came from Durgabhavani (on violin) and Sayi Giridhar (on mridangam).
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121850380200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/18/images/2009121850380201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSICAL NOTES Popular and rare keertanas were presented.
p14
ss.