(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGood, but  in parts
p3
sVnews
p4
VIndian music, Carnatic music in particular, is essentially creative music (Manodharma Sangitham). The three features,alapana,neravalandswarakalpanaare the disciplines where this creativity is expressed.The artiste's skill lies in the imagination that is exercised in these disciplines. In recent years, the relentless rehearsals and regurgitation of what has been so done is transforming creative music to created music (kalpitha sangitham).Ranganayaki Sachidanandan who gave a vocal concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram was no exception in this live out.The accompanying violinist, Sachidanandan, the husband of the artiste, further sensitised and devalued this facet.It was plain that both had worked hard and memorised to reproduce these clips, which, in fact, created sheer boredom. Thekoruvais(calculated mathematical equations) were clearly seen as worked out phrases. If at all, they must at least be seen as extempore.In a situation like his, the concert loses its hold and turns out to be slothful and doctrinaire.Good `sruti gnana'Ranganayaki has a reasonably good voice and hersruti gnanais good; her choice of items for the concert was also judicious but holistically it needed more application than perfunctory reproduction.Bhairavi varnaminata thalamstarted of well and was rendered inthisra nadai, showing the skill of the artiste. Diaskshithar'sGanapatheinKalyaniwas a rare item, which caught the attention of therasika.ThePancharathna,SadhincheneinArabhiwas a routine rendering. ThealapanaofVaraliwas impressive and thekriti,Eti janmamidi hawas presented with feeling. It was here in particular that the highly rehearsedkoruvaisinswarakalpanamade a mess.The central piece wasHarikamboji, which came off well. The item,Enthrani thanakenthaponiwas good.Theragamalika pallavichosen for RTP was short of imagination.It was in combination of two ragas,RanjaniandSriranjaniset toKhandjathi tripurta thalam.Both theragasmay be bereft of the notepanchamam, but the poise was lacking for the simple reason that there was not sufficient contrast between them as also the lack of balance between them.It would have been better had she combined one moreragawith striking contrast and chosen athalawith a more time-consumingnadailikethisramorkhandam. Thethanamwas also average.Sachidanandan on the violin was routine in his display and the combination sounded a routine practice session. The mridangam accompaniment by Thyagarajan also did not add much thrill.All in all, the concert was good in parts and left a reasonably good impression. The attendance was also poor because of summer.B.R.C. IYENGARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/06/stories/2005050601310300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.