(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOde to Annamayya
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Department of Culture and Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam jointly organised the 600th Annamacharya Jayanthi at Ravindra Bharathi.Singer Sobharaju, who has made the propagation of thesekirtanasher life's mission, appealed to the government to celebrate the occasion every year. In the morning session, she rendered some compositions of Annamayya.The highlight of the entire event was rendition of Annamacharya compositions bySangeeta KalanidhiNedunuri Krishnamurthy. He takes credit for setting to tune more than 100 Annamacharya compositions. In fact, some of them have become so popular that they went into concert circles while others were adopted by dancers for theirabhinaya.For the occasion, Nedunuri had the vocal support of his disciple Malladi Ravi Kumar with Peri Srirama Murthy on violin, V. Venkataramana on mridangam, Nemani Somayajulu on ghatam and Ghantasala Satyasai on morsing. Nedunuri rendered all the songs with excellent ragas, using the concert technique for some renditions. The compositions he chose were all new, except one that started with  -BhavamulonainSuddhadhanyasi.Avadharu RaghupatiinKhamasthat followed was a pleasant composition.Rama Rama RamakrishnainKalyaniwas enriched with a finenereval, and briskswaraprasthara.PalumaruinMayamalavagowladescribed the atmosphere of Sri Krishna Jayanthi. Nedunuri choseMohanaas his major raga effort and aptly selectedAde Choodare Mohanaroopamto present in this enchanting raga.Nerevalandswarasin thekritipart enhanced the appeal of the raga andsahityatoo. He presentedswarasin inimitable style in rhythmic single cycles ofAdi talam.Malladi Ravi also shared some part ofswaraprasthara. Peri's violin support and his versions ofMohanaand the responses forswaraswent a long way in rendering the concert a memorable experience. Thethaniby percussionists was interesting.The day-long event was the outcome of a promise made by the Minister for Tourism Dr. J. Geetha Reddy to name the old city music college of the State government after Tallapaka Annamacharya, after consulting with the Chief Minister. She assured that they would convert Tallapaka in Kadapa district into a spiritual centre in honour of Annamacharya. Competitions in rendition of Annamacharya compositions were held for senior, junior and sub-junior singers. Awards for the winners were given away by the Department of Culture.G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/27/stories/2005052701830300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.