(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor that perfect sruti
p3
sVnews
p4
VWith an awareness of combining technique with populist ideas, Manasi makes the concert a living image. It is not technique alone that impresses but the voice of the artist behind the technique who made the vehicle of her inner necessarily. There is complete thoroughness, perhaps a little more than needed. Limits of technique should not surpass spiritual experience; it is here that Manasi missed her measure.The youthful enthusiasm works under pressure and the artist tries to do more than feasible, resulting in repetitions and harmonic diversions from melodic progressions; There being so many complicated modulations and transitions it fails to appeal to the emotions of the listener. They may even become monotonous and tiring, no matter how immeasurably difficult they may be.Manasi&#8217;s scholarship centred on two items that she chose to elaborate -saveriandhamir kalyani. Basically,savericoming up soon afterthodiwas in poor judgment.Thealapanaof both the ragas referred to were executed with emotion, melody and imagination.The spectrum was clear and convincing, but why beat around the bush? Thesangathiswere often repeated and the format of thealapanahad no configuration or design. It would have been more appealing had it been succinct.The concert commenced with thevarnaminthodibut the usage ofpanchamamat one or two places in thesolfasyllables (chittaswaras) was not in order.Sashivadanainchandrajyothiwas a thrilling contribution. The intricatethala-adi, thisra nadai- did not deter Manasi from effortlessly rendering the composition,shankariof Shyamasastry; the elaborateneravalwas rather overplayed; she intriguingly avoidedswarakalpanaafterneraval, an unusual practice.It was inhamir kalyanishe struck gold; the live wire of the raga consists in the usage of bothshudhaandprathi madhyamamand it touches the heart, as it were of the listener.The raga was covered exhaustively in three octaves in different speeds, although the extension was a part of replication.The uncommonkrithiof Thyagaraja,manamuledawas sensitively presented.Dwaram Satyanarayana, a seasoned violinist, contributed greatly to the success of the concert.His playing ofhamir kalyaniwas almost a challenge to the vocalist&#8217;s presentation. Ramachandran was throughout helpful but he can afford to be less vociferous.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/12/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/12/14/stories/2007121451340300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.