(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYoung performers impress with fine show
p3
sVnews
p4
VL. RENGANATHANIt is heart warming to learn that in Karur, a forum is promoting fine arts with a missionary zeal.  The members of the Narada Gana Sabha come together every year to remember their founder Vedanthachariar by organising concerts. This year, they joined hands with the Tamil Nadu Iyal Isai Nataka Manram, which financially supported the five-day fine arts festival recently.The programmes featured two Bharatanatyam performances, two nagaswaram recitals, and a vocal concert. And the noteworthy aspect of the programmes was that all the leading performers were  budding artistes.The first day saw G. Ashok showcase his talent in kuralisai (vocal) in the company of Anantha Padmanabhan (violin), P.S.Chandra Kumar (mridangam) and M. Lakshmanan (ghatam). Ashok began with  a varnam in Khambodi and followed it up with Swati Tirunal's "Paripalayamam" in Ritigowlai. He captured the emotions in Papanasam Sivan's "Endraiku Siva Kirubai Varumo" (Mukhari), Tyagaraja's "Ninna Nera Namminanura" (Pantuvarali), in which the neraval stood out, the saint composer's "Ethuda Nila" (Sankarabaranam) and the immensely popular "Enna Thavam Seithanai" (Kapi).Neat performanceIt was a neat and uncomplicated Bharatanatyam performance by Suhasini Thomas.  A varnam in Sivaranjani followed by a padam on Lord Muruga in Khambodi saw the artiste depicting perfect bhavas and apt mudras. A javali in Kamas and a Telugu piece in Hamsadwani were received well even as Suhasini rounded off with a racy tillana. The nagaswaram ensemble of Adyar T. Balasubramani and Mambalam S. Santhanam accompanied ably on the tavil by P.V.Dakshinamurthy and D. Senthil Kumar offered a delightful fare.  The Navaragamalika varnam was followed by "Marivere Dikkevaru'' in Lathangi set to kanda chapu talam and "Vancha Chonura'' in Karna Ranjani set to adi talam was impressive as the youths embarked on a road less travelled. "Vijayambigai'' in Vijaya Nagari and Rajaji's popular ragamalika number, "Kurai Onrumillai,'' were lilting.Nimble footwork was the highlight of  M. Jayashree's Bharatanatyam peformance.  Starting off well with a Pushpanjali in Nattai, she progressed to "Sadha Sivam'' in Hamsadhwani and strengthened the rapport she had struck with the audience with the popular "Bho Sivasambho" (Revathi) and a varnam in Nattai Kurinji. "Chinnanchiru kiliye'' in ragamalika was remarkable for portraying Jayashree's grasp of the art.The nagaswaram concert by Sivanvayal S.M.Venkatesan and Mambalam S. Rajesh stood out for its crispness.  "Evarine... '' (Patnam Subramania Iyer, Abhogi, Adi), "Manavaiya'' (Tyagaraja, Nalinakanti, Adi) and "Marivothee'' (Muthuswami Dikshitar, Lathangi, Kandachapu) were among the songs they rendered beautifully.  Nandambakkam H. Dakshinamurthy and Sivanvayal S. M. Rajarathinam provided good percussion support on the tavil.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033100490300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.