(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWholesome classical fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe vibrant vocal recital by "Gaanakalaanidhi,"  Tadepalli Lokanatha Sarma on the third day  was the highlight of the five-day fete of music organised by Sri Vijaya Tyagaraja Sangeetha Sabha in association with the Sankara Matham Trust in its premises recently. Sarma, initiated  into music by his  musician father Subrahmanya Sastry,  had the privilege of being under the expert tutelage of stalwart musicians, Musuri Subrahmanya Iyer and Chittoor Subrahmanya Pillai. He did extensive research on `Classical Musical Instruments' and obtained Ph.D from Mysore University for his thesis on the same. Besides being featured in theAkashvani Sangeetha Sammelansand almost all majorsabhas, he is also known for his  discerning research papers  which were presented and published.His concert was marked for surfacing soul stirring classicism in the most traditional way of the older generation. His full-blown, impeccably pure and resonant voice traversed nearly two-and-half octaves felicitously with the same intensity. Sarma from the word go starting withVaatapiganapatimand especially elaboratingTulasi Jagajjananiof Tyagaraja (Saveri) andNaanaatibratuku naatakamof Annamayya set to music by himself in,  literally took along with him the entire audience on a sojourn deep into ethereal realms of  ecstasy.Colourful startInaugurated by Sadguru K. Sivananda Murty; the fete got off to a scintillating start with thenaadaswaramrecital by Gurivilli Appanna excellently supported ondoluby his equally reputed brother Durga Rao.Their recital right from the word go starting with theAbhogi varnamconcluded on a lilting note with theDhanasri Thillanaof Swathi Tirunal turned out to be a wholesome feast. The brothers were felicitated and presented with gold medals instituted in the name of the founder president of thesabha, Dr. late Alahari Singari and Dr. late Durvasula Bhagavanulu who was known for his research articles on musical sound patterns of a variety of instruments.Thesadguruon behalf of thesabhaadorned the medals on them.K. Aparna with her vocal recital  and support on violin by P. Gnanadev and his brother Jayadev onmridangamon the second day, proved to be an excellent artiste in the making.The fourth evening was marked by an evocative vocal by Sankari Krishna (disciple of Lalgudi G. Jayaraman) with the excellent support rendered by Akashvani staffers N.C. Madav on violin and V.V. Ramana Murty onmridangam. Exquisite elaboration of Lalithe of Tyagaraja (Bhairavi) and raagam taanam pallavi in Sankarabharanam were the highlights.A fine Violin solo by Pappu Gnanadev in the company of his brother Jayadev on mridangam was the  beginning of the final day.Evocative and knowledgeable vocal by Kasturi Kamaladeepthi very ably accompanied on violin by G. Chandramouli andmridangamby P. Meher Sagar provided the grand finale.Sariyevvareadorned with fortifyingaalapanaandswaramand expansive expatiation ofDasaradhi Nee Runamu(Todi) of Tyagaraja were the pieces de resistance.Young Sreyan Giri and K.S.S. Govinda rendering short duration recitals as well held good promise. H. Ramacharan on violin and V. Jayadeep Sarma onmridangamlent good support.A.R.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/23/stories/2005092301660200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/09/23/images/2005092301660201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVOCAL FLOW Lokanatha Sarma stretches the notes.
p14
ss.