(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEminence, visual and aural
p3
sVnews
p4
VSHARADA SCHAFFTERA select audience at the Museum Theatre on September 30 faced an unfamiliar challenge &#151;  they had to respond simultaneously to a live performance of sublime Western classical music and illuminated stills of centuries-old exquisite canvases in the background; the composers, performers and artists were all Italian. And respond the audience did &#151;  with aplomb &#151;  reserving all applause till the end of the concert as requested by the artistes.Thanks to Ashok Leyland, the Italian Cultural Institute showcased the famous three-decade-old Rome String Quartet in `The Magic Box: dialogues between music and painting in Italy from Romanticism to the XX Century.' Vittorio di Lotti and Stefano di Lotti on the violin, Aldo Giovagnoli on the viola and Nicolino Chirivi on the cello &#151;  each an eminent soloist in his own right &#151;  accomplished admirably the more demanding task of playing together.The common idiom being the emotions, the dialogue recreated by sound and colour presented strictly within a form, effected an elusive but unforgettable communion among  composers, musicians, artists and the audience.From aesthetic to profoundThe departure from the grand form of the classical age with its elaborate sonata form was imminent; the desire of the composers to keep emotions at the highest level helped sustain close, direct contact with the listener. Even the newly introduced dissonant harmony became colour-coded. Music moved from the precincts of palace and church to the concert hall. No longer an abstract, purely aesthetic experience, music in the romantic period linked philosophy and faith, and love of nature and desire for freedom leading to `profound meditations of life and death'.The `Magic Box'  functioned aurally as a String Quartet, an intimate, perfectly coordinated but viable and wholesome entity plucked out of that brilliant ensemble, the symphony orchestra, while the colourful canvases provided the visual counterpart. Although composers have used other sections of the orchestra like brass or wood-wind with multicoloured effect, the four instruments of the violin family that correspond roughly to the soprano, alto, tenor and bass voices, became the most favoured medium for ensembles.  The characteristic timbre  or colour of the different instruments functioned as the perfect companion to the music of the canvases.In an unusual melding of the arts, the dialogue flowed between the cadences and rhythms of a century of Italian music &#151;  from G.Donizetti (early 18th Century) to A.Casella (mid 20th Century) &#151;  and the colours and the sense of depth of the brush- strokes of Italian painters of the same periods, F.Hayez to G.de Chirico.A sensuous charm achieved in the dimension of time was juxtaposed against equally compelling and captivating creations in the dimension of space. The journey from the `eternal splendour' of the 18th Century music and painting to the `bewilderment and restlessness' characterising art that followed the First World War, was emotionally highly charged.`Interest in fine arts will promote harmony'Vittorio Di Lotti, the leader and number one violin of "The Rome String Quartet" agreed for an exclusive interview forThe Hinduafter the Quartet's concert at The Museum Theatre. Excerpts:When did you start group?The quartet was formed in 1976 with four musicians from varied and distinguished backgrounds and international experience. The present members of the group have been together for the past 15 years. Stefano Di Lotti (violin) Ado Giovagnoli (viola) and Niscolino Chirivi (cello) are the other members of the group.Do you cover all Classical, Romantic and 20th Century composers in your concerts?Yes. We do cover a wide variety of composers that includes even those belonging to 20th century.What about contemporary music?If it is nice to the ears and is appealing we do take it up and append it in our repertoire. But the lyric is important.What do you think of `Atonal Music?' How is it received by the audience?Atonal music is very interesting and requires special knowledge to understand it. We do not know the knowledge level of the audience for whom we are playing at certain places and hence we avoid it. However we do play it in our concerts in Northern Europe where the young and old appreciate it.Are there individual interpretations of each piece?No. It is all just one thought rightly focused connecting all the four and the leader is followed to the core.Is any exchange done between the first and the second violins in respect of portions of a music piece?Never. Each of us have our roles defined with the pieces fixed and we just play that.How about teaching Chamber Music to younger quartets?I have been personally teaching musicians for so many years. In my earlier years I even taught the rudiments to many budding artistes. These days I confine myself to groups with sound knowledge. They come to me to fine tune their all round skillsWhat do you think is the most difficult part of a quartet?The binding factor &#151;  harmony of minds. Intelligence and discipline, without which nothing can be achieved, are of course vital.Have you evolved practice exercises for quartets based on you experience?No such thing has been attempted. We keep honing our skills by sheer practice including basics in a disciplined manner and we take any quartet piece as an exercise and practise it.Any observation that you would like to make?Humanity finds interest in fine arts. Only the level of interest varies. A world without sound and colours would be a world with no life. With more involvement in fine arts there will be less negativity in this world and with lesser negative vibrations the universe will be filled with harmony and peace.V. BALASUBRAMANIANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100602290700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100602290702.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVittorio Di Lotti.
p14
ss.