(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMaster in the making
p3
sVnews
p4
VHere is another promising talent in the field of Carnatic violin, to be watched and groomed. Now in his teens, Vinay Rahul has undergone tutelage under veterans like Neti Srirama Sarma and Akella Mallikarjuna Sarma. The latter chose Vinay Rahul and trained him under the &#8216;Guru Sishya Parampara&#8217; scheme envisaged by the South Central Cultural Zone, Tanjavur. He underwent rigorous training under Akella a great scholar himself in this field.Vinay has already been the recipient of several coveted awards as a teenager. He began giving concerts since the age of six and was blessed by veterans Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna and others for his quick grasp of pure note. Vinay has given nearly seventy concerts in the past three years. The boy took diploma in Carnatic music instrumental, passing with distinction.Vinay&#8217;s violin solo last week at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha was a true experience, the effort he took and the talent he revealed puts him in high esteem of a great promise of the state. He set himself well by tuning his instrument to the perfection levels and went on playing each the number &#8211; around a dozen &#8211; in a flow of melodic continuity.The repertoire was of varied appeal. The opening Natakuranji varnam (Chalamela) aptly served Vinay to set himself and the instrument into order. But for the lapses in the mike system, his concert was enjoyable throughout. The brisk varnam eased him a bit and the invocationVatapiin Hamsadhwani was played with great expression. AfterMamava Sada Jananiof Swathi Tirunal in Kaanada, the young boy chose Bilahari for a brief essay and played it impressively.Paridanamichitewas his choice number and the nereval and swaraprasthara he did in this spoke of his virtuosic instinct. After the popularBantureetiin Hamsanadam and a movingManasa Etu lorthunein Malayamarutham, Vinay took up Kalyani as his major number of the concert. He dwelt on the melody for considerable time, bringing in all the majestic appeal of the raga.The compositionNidhi Chaala Sukhamain Mishrachapu was a pleasing presentation by the boy. The raga turned out to be the major highlight of the concert. The nereval presentation and swarakalpana in the kriti was good.Vinay performed in the company of a great veteran in the field of mridangam, Mullapudi Sriramamurthy, with Nemani Somayajulu on the ghatam. Mullapudi Sriramamurthy proved a great asset with his expertise and clarity. His tani vvartana in the company of Nemani was an enjoyable exercise.Notable in the later part wereManasa Sanchararein Saama, and a breezy Kadanakutuhalam piece,Raghuvamsa. Light classical numbers and a jawaliApaduruku Lonaiin Khamas and tilllana in Kapi of Lalgudi followed. Vinay Rahul maintained excellent tonal quality throughout the concert.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/10/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/10/02/stories/2009100250400300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/10/02/images/2009100250400301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.