(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRamadasu kirtanas take centrestage
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe movement undertaken by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam to revive, tune and record the innumerable songs of Annamacharya has put the poet&#8217;s compositions in circulation with many vocalists taking to them.With this surge of Annamacharyakirtanas,the rendition of Ramadasukirtanashas taken a back seat. Today even Carnatic vocalists are replacing a Ramadasukirtanain their repertoire with Annamayyakirtanaor keeping to the rendition of both. The late Vasireddi Kanakadurga was the lone principal of Bhakta Ramadasu Government College of Music and Dance who put in great efforts to hold annual festivals of Bhakta Ramadasu.  But later this practice too was abandoned. Perhaps, keeping this declining trend in view, Sriramalayam of Bhadhrachalam held a huge festival recently.It invited senior and junior musicians from different parts of the state. Great musicians of the state assembled at the temple premises and celebrated 376th Ramadasu Jayanthi. But for two dozenkirtanasof Ramadasu, that are in circulation, majority of hundreds of compositions which also arose from creative inspiration of the saint are languishing for want of popularity among both musicians and common people.Some dedicated musicians, scholars, researchers and performers were constantly working at one time or the other to search for lost compositions of Ramadasu.  Led by Sangeetha Kalanidhi Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, a select set of noted musicians took part in the event and revived the interest in Ramadasu&#8217;s kirtanas. Nedunuri&#8217;s repertoire included some rare numbers of Ramadasu.Dasaradha Rama Govindain Mukhari,Ennaganu Ramabhajanain Pantuvarali,Enduku Kriparaaduin Ananda Bhairavi,Eevela Nanu Brovavain Khamas were some great numbers from him. Malladi Brothers&#8217; Sama numberRaghuveera Ani Ne,Ramabhadra Raaraain Sankarabharanam,Unnado Ledoin Asaveri, Hyderabad Brothers&#8217;Tulasidalamulachein Mayamalavagaula,Rama Daiva Sikhamaniin Thodi,Ramachandrulu Napaiin Asaveri were some beauties of richsahityacontent.Artistes from Chennai too took part in the festivities. The event was held at Kalyanamantapam of the temple on the banks of river Godavari. There was Nagara Sankeerthana too.An audio CDDasarathi Satakammade by vocalist Malladi Suribabu was also released. Among others who took part in this event were G. Balakrishna Prasad, Sundari Janakiraman and her disciples  Suguna and  U. Anuradha (Hyderabad),  Seshulata (Hyderabad),  K.V.Lakshmi and  K. Lalitha Vijaykumar (Hyderabad),  Padmavathy (Veena, Kothagudem),  Muppavarapu Simhachala Sastry (Harikatha, Tirupathi),  Janaki Lakshman and  Vaidehi (Chennai),  D. Vasavi (Bangalore),  D. Prameela (Vijayawada). They were all supported by prominent accompanists.   The congregations during the festival felt the need to revive the propagation of Ramadasukirtanasby imparting training to student groups and artistes and conducting competitions and festivals on large scale throughout the state.One hopes this movement continues with more and more organisations taking part in this, lest the younger generation forget the great literary and musical past.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/27/stories/2009032750360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/03/27/images/2009032750360301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.