(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA fusion affair
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIAnoorada and Sriram Parasuram make a loveable pair of classical musicians, who tread altogether a different path expounding their multifarious talents. Sriram is well known as a violinist right from his young age.  Now he adds to his repertoire Hindustani and western music systems too. Anoorada is a fine singer with a  vocal compass and impressive diction, the traits that Sriram too has. Now that both are good at Hindustani system, they evolved a method of singing both in one stretch in Carnaticragaand then in its equivalent in Hindustani.They chose compositions from both systems and make them into a garland. Sriram appears to have been concentrating more on blending both the styles into what can be called a total Indian music. He says that the skeleton is the same and the musical mass added to that is a bit different. All these aspects of their musical output was witnessed when they sang for a cause, taken up by Lions Club of Hyderabad Majestic, undertaking eye donation campaigns, adoption of schools for economically weak and then rehabilitation of street children. The concert was held at Ravindra Bharati.It is a pity that Ravindra Bharati did not gain anything after repairs undertaken recently spending heavily on it. On the other hand it has lost previous comfort.There is lot of echo now in the auditorium that affected the beauty of this concert. The front rows are so low that you will not be able to see the footwork of a dancer. Even the comfort in the seats that existed earlier is gone. Sriram often made request to adjust the mikes to suit his intonation and guided them how to do. One way this concert exposed the drawbacks of the renovated theatre.The couple opened their show withKalyani varnamin two speeds and then sangYaman, in Hindustani style, equivalent to theCarntic kalyani. InYamanthey presented achota Khayalin medium and high tempos  -MadhyaandDrut, adding high breezeswara-basedakaras. The delineation ofRevathiwent to the share of Anoorada.After a pleasing essay, she chose to sing Annamacharya's compositionNaanati Bathuku Natakamuin this. She treated it as a main Carnatic piece of the concert. But looking at the philosophic content of the composition, one might feel that it does not suit that slot of a main piece. Yet the rendition by Anoorada was with feeling. This is one of great compositions of Annamacharya. Siram then sangRevathi's equivalent in HindustaniBairagi Bhairav, with a small compositionO Savariain it. The piece is finished in high tempo.Then came theManoharipiece, akin toKamala Manohari. Both the artistes rendered it and the song they chose in it wasNee Muddu Momuof Thyagaraja.NotableThis piece was particularly notable for the way the percussionists  -   D.S.R.Murthy on mridangam and Rajender on tabla went for an excitingTani avartanam. Both displayed great understanding.Then Sriram spoke ofRama Katha, rendered in various parts of the country in a ballad form.As a sample he rendered the one rendered in Bengal by Kirthi Basu. This part narrated the joy of people of Ayodhya as they watch their Lord Srirama returning to his kingdom victoriously. This was set inraga Chandra Kauns.The concert then concluded with a composition of Sant Kabir, the gist of which compares the journey of a bride taken in a palanquin in a procession to her in-law's place with the last journey of a soul to attainmoksha.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/20/stories/2006102001760300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/20/images/2006102001760301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLOVEABLE PAIR Sriram Parasuram and Anoorada.
p14
ss.