(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical ode to the deity
p3
sVnews
p4
VCelebrating Rama Navami, Visakha Music Academy and Nadasudha Tarangini Trust of Sangeetha Kalanidhi Nedunuri Krishna Murty, jointly organised a three-day fete of music and dance from Wednesday last at Kalabharathi. Vocal recitals by K. Lahari followe\u000ad by Pantula Rama marked the inaugural evening and the full concert by noted vocal duo Malladi Srirama Prasad and his brother Ravikumar provided grand finale of the fete on Friday.Getting off to a tuneful start in the able company of M. Satyanarayana Sarma on violin and M. Sridhar on mridangam, she soulfully madeNadanubhuthi, the import and purport of her entire recital. Elaboration ofNeevallagunadoshamemi(Kaapi) and expansive expatiation ofParamapavana Rama(Poorvikalyani) were the highlights. Sarma and Sridhar providing accompaniment and playing in their turns as well, were excellent.Rama next, from the word go starting with a scholarly aalapana of kharaharapriya forRaamaneeveof T. Narasimhachari, seemed to have made concentrating on classicism, the import of her recital.She purportedly also made all listeners enjoy the sublimity of it. Noted vocalist and violinist M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murty, her husband, on violin and G. Venkata Rao on mridangam kept commensurable company.Expansive expatiation ofEnnagaanu Raamabhajana(Pantuvarali) andEvaraniof Mysore Vasudevachar (Bilhari) stood out leaving an impression of being rendered as pietistic odes to Sri Rama. Murty while proved to be her peer, Venkata Rao with precise beat on mridangam lent excellent support.Replete with compatibly competitive vigour and vivacity in their intonation and complementing virtuosity individually in their exposition, Malladi brothers rendered a virtuous recital. Briskly striking scintillating notes, they enthralled all alike all along.Surfacing professionalism with fine finesse in the expert company of Dwaram Satyanarayana Rao on violin, Mahadevu Lakshminarayana Raju on mridangam ably complemented on ghatam by M. Haribabu, the duo mainly rendered expansive expatiation ofBhajanaseyarada(Dharmavathi) andKoluvamaregada(Todi). Proving equally virtuosic, Rao on violin, Raju on mridangam and Babu on ghatam both while lending support and playing their turns, like the main artistes made all listeners share their experience of gusto that got generated by themselves as a team.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/04/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/04/10/stories/2009041050220200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/04/10/images/2009041050220201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical vignettes(Top) Pantula Rama and Malladi Brothers.
p14
ss.