(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLike father, like sons
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeteran vocalist-violinist Komanduri Seshadri, along with his two sons Anantha Souri Rajan and Venkatakrishna, both noted violinists in their own right, gave a rare concert titled &#8216;violin trio' at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha's mini auditorium recently. This programme was arranged by Sangeetha Ksheerasagaram. The violinists were supported by Burra Sriram on mridangam and Batchu Janardhan on ghatam.Traditional repertoireThe repertoire set was quite traditional. The trio, led by the veteran Seshadri, opened with Navaragamalika varnam in Adi talam and went for Siddhi Vinayakam Anisam of Dikshitar in Shanmukhapriya in Roopaka talam. The three presented the raga in turns extensively, taking hints from each other for continuity. The swarakalpana was done by all the three violinists, led by the senior, in the same pattern giving a total picture of the raga.Sadhinchene O Manasa in aditalam of Thyagaraja was presented later with vocalist touch as sahitya of the number rules high. Janaki Ramana in Suddha Seemantini also of Thyagaraja was a sweet presentation with expressive touch.Here too Seshadri opened the raga essay and built it beautifully. The other two followed adding to the consummate picture of the raga. The swarakalpana was extensively presented by his sons, after their father paved way for it.Janani Ninu Vina in reetigowla of Subbaraya Sastry set in Misra Chapu talam was another sweet rendition. Akhilandeswari in Jai Jayavanti, also called Dwijavanti of Deekshitar in Adi talam figured next. The devotional element that the kriti carries was not missing in their play. Nee Valla Guna Doshamemi of Thygaraja in Kapi was another pleasing number in Khandachapu talam presented with Sahitya bhava.The main attraction of the concert was Kalyani for Yetavunara of Thyagaraja.The raga was presented by all the three violinists with care and sense of beauty. They could bring out its magnanimous picture in its total presentation shared by all the three violinists.Seshadri thought it fit to give a taste of Tanam that sounds well on a string instrument and playing which, though briefly, he made an impact. The popular kriti Ye Tavunara, their choice, was carefully played in unison with vocalist touch. The swarakalpana that followed was done by all the three violinists maintaining the melodic line of Kalyani. The Tani avartanam by the percussionists was absorbing and elevating the number further to new heights.The percussionists lent excellent support all through the concert. Deva Devam in Sindhubhairavi of Narayana Teertha proved a nice choice to add to the feel of sumptuousness. There was a rare presentation of never heard Aarabhi Maanam in ragamalika of Panchanada Iyer.The overall picture of this concert was that the father and his two sons combined well, despite lack of practice sessions, as one of the sons, Venkatakrishna, stays in Tirupati.The ragas - Shanmukhapriya and Kalyani were excellent. So was their swarakalpana part. Swarakalpna was there in almost all the numbers, including Reetigowla.The total effect of the concert was congenial and scholarly. The session was attended by senior musicians and general public.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/07/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/07/23/stories/2010072350300400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/07/23/images/2010072350300401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.