(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTalent, timeless  and timely
p3
sVnews
p4
VNARESH GULATISangeet Sankalp is a pan Indian society promoting classical music. Managed by the musicians themselves, it is devoted to providing a platform to the upcoming and the middle rung artistes who somehow do not find a foothold on the `celebrity-circuit'.The society now has a presence in 84 cities from Guwahati to Porbandar and Jalandhar to Bangalore.Recently, Sankalp organised its 685th national concert in Jaipur. . Interestingly, its 684th national concert was also held on the same day at Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh. Sankalp operates at two levels: the first being concerts with the local artistes and the second, with invited artistes in what constitutes an exchange programme of national concerts among its 84 chapters.The Jaipur Chapter  invited vocalist Samir Duble from Pune and sitarist Sahitya Kumar Nahar from Allahabad. Both the artistes gave thoroughly enjoyable recitals while their personal modesty impressed the discerning audience that turned up in good numbers at the Krishnayan in the Jawahar Kala Kendra.A disciple of Pandit Rambhau Bhate and the late vocalist Jitendra Abhisheki, Duble started his recital with Sham Kalyan. Quick in his rendition, he skipped the alaap and established a rapport with the listeners with clarity of bol.Duble did the vilambit laya with the "Mukhda Sham Suhani Aai Lai Sandeshwa More Piya Ke Aawan Ka" and the madhya laya with "Ghar More Aaye Sayyan, Phooli Na Samaoon, Bahut Sukh Paoon."A vocalist doubling up as a composer for theatre music and lately as the author of a structured lec-dem Jnan-jigyasa, Duble then gave a brief rendition of madhu-ranjani sans the aalap again.Strangely yet pleasantly, Duble produced the flavour of Bhimsen Joshi as he did a Kabir verse set to this raga.By the time he wrapped up his concert with two shringar compositions set to Bhairavi , he had left his mark on Jaipur denizens  with his melodious recital.Duble was accompanied on tabla by Mohammed Ahmed, on harmonium by Giriraj Balodiya and on tanpura by Divya.Sitar recitalThe sitarist from the City of Triveni credited with creating new ragas like Shradha-ranjani selected the popular evening raga Yaman for his recital. While Nahar softly plucked the strings of his sitar, he produced clear melodious notes of the raga that employed all the natural notes of the saptak, except the tivra madhyam. Bereft of wizardry, Nahar kept his recital soft and straight barring the occasional use of meend, yet all of it resulted in the obvious joy for the listeners.He finished his concert with a dhun set to Mishra-khamaj. Akash Saxena accompanied the artiste on tabla.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/29/stories/2005072901240200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.