(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpeccable performance
p3
sVnews
p4
VVarna in raga Thodi ("Saraguna") by Dr. Balamuralikrishna marked the beginning of the Palace Concerts during the Dasara Cultural Festival-2005. Creative svara kalpana, delineation of ragabhava, explication of sarvasvara gamaka with impeccable artistry gave excellent impetus to the concert. Intermittent showers did not deter the artiste.He continued with yet another own composition "Dakshayini Raksahmam" tuned in unusual raga Naga-Nandini. His rendition of the pallavi spoke of his mastery. Significant vilambakala alapana and svarakalpana in Muthuswamy Dixitar's "Kamalambam Bhajare" (Kalyani) bestowed splendour to the performance.However, the high potential of the performance by a genius like Dr. Balamurali Krishna did not reach the much-expected heights. The concert concluded with tillana in raga Kadanakuthuhala.An undue delay in starting the concert and minor ill health caused disappointment for the large gathering. Vidwan Arjunkumar on the mridanga made up for the mediocre violin support (Raghavendra Rao).CaptivatingVocal concert by Sandyavandanam Poornapragna Rao from the well-known tradition of Sandyavandanam Srinivasa Rao of yesteryear was packed with Dasa Sahitya. Deep involvement in rendition, clarity of sahitya with devout manodharma, captivating svarakalpana and accuracy in gathi-bedas were the hallmarks of the concert."Vandisuvudaadiyali Gananathana" in Nata, "Neene Dayalu Nirmala Chitta Govinda" (Ananda Bharavi), "Kodu Divyamathi Saraswathi" (Vasantha) were rendered with immense involvement.Compositions of other vaggeyakars selected for the day's concert were "Samaja Vara Gamana" (Sri Tyagaraja) in Hindola and "Parimala Ranganathan" of (Muthuswamy Dixitar) in Hamir Kalyani.Devotional compositions "Jo Achuthananda" of Annamacharya, "Tugire Rangana" in raga Neelambari slokam in ragamalika and the concluding mangala in Madhyamavati gave traditional touch to the concert.Charumathi Ramachandran on violin and Jayamangala on the mridanga gave excellent melody and rhythm to the concert.Ramesh on mrichangi gave adequate support.Total controlBangalore S. Shankar's concert at the Kalamandira received good response.  The artiste kept a good hold on the audience with his tonal melody and sahitya bhava in rendition.The short duration allotted to such a senior artiste was a dampner. Before the concert could reach greater heights it had to be concluded with few selections like "Mamavasada" of Swathi Tirunal in Kaanada, "Ambavani Nannu Adaraimpave" of Muthiah Bhagavatar in Keeravani and Sripadarayaru's ugabhoga in Sindubhairavi.B.S.S. RaoBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/28/stories/2005102803460400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/28/images/2005102803460402.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPACKED The Dasara concerts got an overwhelming response
p14
ss.