(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFrets that soothe
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPThe Akashvani National Programmes of Music launched in the mid-1940s were earlier direct broadcasts of live concerts held before an invited audience in Studio No.1 at Broadcasting House on Parliament Street in the Capital. This practice continued for several years, after which these were replaced with broadcasts of recordings made earlier in the studio in Delhi and later on at the Akashvani stations in different parts of India, including nondescript stations like Cuttack, Vijayawada, Raipur and the like.It was indeed a delightful experience to attend, after several decades, a live concert held before an invited audience in Studio No. 1 for recording Ustad Asad Ali Khan's Rudra veena recital which was broadcast over the Akashvani network the other day.Ustad Asad Ali Khan is the scion of the Beenkaars of the Jaipur tradition. Born in Rampur where his illustrious father, the late Ustad Saqiq Ali Khan, was the court musician to the late Nawab Raza Ali Khan, Ustad Asad Ali Khan received his training in Dhrupad and Rudra veena from his father.His recital for the Akashvani National Programme of Music this month  would be long remembered for his superb exposition in raga Mian-ki-Malhar, an immortal creation of Mian Tansen. Its three main constituents, Malhar, Kanada and Sarang, have been blended to create this melody with noble effect, and at the same time without giving the least prominence to any of the three constituent ragas. The rich tonal flavour of the bass strings was brilliantly put to release the bold and sweeping glides, thereby almost creating the image of the monsoon clouds roaring and thundering. There was a good number of reposeful  phrasings in the alap, which was taken at length. This was followed by jod-jhala sequences of varying hues and colours, at times creating the effect of a charmingly sung lullaby. The overall appeal of the recital was akin to singing through the frets and the strings.The dhrupad composition in the 12-beat Chautala played with commendable pakhawaj accompaniment by Pandit Dal Chand Sharma provided a befitting finale to Ustad Asad Ali Khan's hour-long rendering in the opening Mian-ki-Malhar. sThe Rudra veena maestro provided a colourful finale to this most memorable recital with a brief alap-jod in raga Desh followed by a composition in the same raga that was set to the 10-beat Jhap tala. Incidentally, raga Desh too is a form of the Malhars that are a specialty for the rainy season.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/18/stories/2006081801290200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/18/images/2006081801290201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAsad Ali Khan - Rudra Veena . on The Dhrupad Festival Indian Classical Music Festival at The Museum Theatre Chennai.
p14
ss.