(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAlbum of sacred verses
p3
sVnews
p4
VRamanuja, the Acharya nonpareil, established the philosophy of Sri Vaishnavism and its descriptive name is Visishtadvaita. His work Gadyatrayam comprises the Saranagatigadya, Sri Rangagadya, and Sri Vaikuntagadya Saranagatigadya is in the form of a dialogue with Sriman Narayana. Ramanuja pleads with the Lord to pardon his sins and deficiencies and totally surrenders himself to the grace of the almighty.Sri Rangagadya also called Mitagadya because of its brevity, finds Ramanuja begging the Lord to grant him a place in His abode in order to serve Him forever. In the Sri Vaikuntagadya, Ramanuja graphically describes the splendour of Sri Vaikunta and the magnificent, resplendent form of the Supreme One, Narayana. He also speaks about what a Prapanna (one who has performed saranagati) should do to evolve himself to great heights of spirituality, Yamunacharya's catusloki and stotraratna, and a stotra on Ramanuja also find place in this album.Sri Sudarsanasatakam is in praise of Sudarsana or Chakrathazhwar, a personified form of Lord Narayana Himself. This hymn of 101 slokas was composed by Sri Kuranarayana Jeeyar who was a pontiff of the Sriranganarayana Jeeyar Mutt at Srirangam. He was a disciple of Sri Kurattazhwar, the prime sishya of Ramanuja. It is believed that this stotra was composed to cure a disciple's disease. Daily chanting of these sacred verses would destroy evil forces, signal prosperity, fulfil ambitions and bestow good health.The chanting team is led by Malola Kannan, a worthy Sanskrit scholar for both the volumes. The recitation is meticulous. Amutham Music P. Ltd., has released these commendable volumes in which the leitmotif is complete faith in the tenets of Sri Vaishnavism.S.P.New releasesAnnamacharya Mission has produced Sri Ramaksha Stotram and Navagraha Suktam, both CDs containing Sanskrit slokas. The first album containing Sri Ramabhujangaprayata Stotram, Ashtotram and other hymns have been melodiously rendered by Muralidhar and Gopika Purnima. The slokas in the second CD have been recited by Muttukrishna Ghanapati and Yagnya Narayana Ghanapati.  Priced at Rs. 200, the CDs have been marketed by Vedu Electronics (52149065, 52149066).Inreco has released Kumarasthavam that contains Shanmugakavacham and Panchamritavarnam. The hymns of Kuamra Gurudasa Swamigal, known as Pamban swamigal, have been sung with devotional fervour by Tirupur Sisters. Another release is Annai Mookambigaiye, a collection of ten Tamil songs. L. Krishnan has set to tune the lyrics of Githapriyan soulfully rendered by playback singer Chitra.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/06/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/06/24/stories/2005062403200600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/06/24/images/2005062403200601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn praise of  Chakrathazhwar.
p14
ss.