(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn evening of sitar
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. SURYA RAOA Hindustani concert, a sitar concert to be particular, is a rare treat for music lovers of Vijayawada. Mummaneni Subbarao Sidhardha Kala Peetham, as part of their monthly programme, presented a melodious Sitar concert by Bangalore-based sitarist Tadimeti Radhakrishna. Radhakrishna, who was trained by well-known artistes like Pt.N.R. Ramarao, Pt. Uma Shankar Misra and the legendary Pt. Ravishankar, has performed in many countries. Radhakrishna has also composed for the television series,Malgudi Days. In his engaging concert, Radhakrishna played ragasPoorvaandKeervaniwith great expertise and command. His plucking was soft and melodious. He ended the concert with an item inMisra Khamaj.Masterly tabla support came from Gurucharan Garud, an eminent tabla artiste and the son of the celebrated tabla wizard Pt. Dattatreya Garud, also based in Bangalore. Gurucharan has a master's degree in Physics and Electronics and is now working as a senior lecturer in Bangalore. Nagella Guruprasada Rao, Secretary of the Kala Peetham, introduced the artistes and P.L.N.Prasad, the President of the association, honoured the artistes.In honour of the maestroLaya Vedika, which was formed a few years ago in Vijayawada to showcase the talent of Laya Vadyas, hosted a glittering event at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika, situated at the Government College of Music and Dance campus, to honour veteran mridangam maestro Dandamudi Ramamohana Rao. Padmavibhushan Dr.Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, the master musician and composer, presented aSuvarna Ghanta Kankanam(golden bracelet) to Dandamudi, on behalf of Laya Vedika.Dandamudi, in his musical career that spans over six decades, performed alongside three generations of well-known musicians at several events held in the country and overseas. During the function, Dandamudin was also conferred the titleLaya Praveena. Speaking on the occasion, Balamurali recollected his close association with the master mridangam artiste. Dandamudi, besides serving in the Vijayawada Akashvani for more than four decades as a staff artiste, has also taught a number of budding artistes. Among the several awards received by him, the Central Sangeet Natak Academy award given to him by the President of India is notable.Distinguished gatheringWell-known violinist K.V.Reddy, businessman and art patron Putta Jaganmohan Rao, and Ayyagari Syamasunder, former Principal of the Music College were the other speakers at the event. The proceedings were efficiently compeered by Chandrasekhar. Earlier in the day, a contest was held for mridangam artistes and K.Sai Giridhar emerged the winner.The evening was also marked by a vocal concert by Modumudi Sudhakar, who was supported by P.Nageswara Rao on the violin and M.Saibabu on the mridangam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/24/stories/2006022401950200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.