(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn elaborate fare
p3
sVnews
p4
Vanniversary celebrations of Visakha Music Academy last week in Kalabharati, started withamulti-media presentation of an encyclopaedic talk on Gitagovindam. . Pappu Venugopalarao from Chennai in his prelude elucidated how Gitagovindam stands as the first-of-its-kind in verse form in Sanskrit set in a pattern of traditional music. He further critiqued as to how Jayadeb, its composershowcased the poetic and musical talents on one hand and on the other, created a specific identity asVaggeyakara.Displaying audio visual clippings of music and dance recitals and a few from feature films, Rao explained how the set up of music has changed now and lost its native fervour.The function began with the conferring of the title &#8216;Sangeetha Kalaasagara&#8217; on the renowned mridangam VidwanVankayala Narasimham, who  has trained scores of youngsters to reach professional levels in playing mridangam, kanjira, ghatam and morsing.Presently, he is the principal of the music wing of Gudilova Residential School near Visakhapatnam. The programme was followed by a euphonic exposition of Carnatic vocal replete with a scholarly expression ofManodharmaby Pantula Rama.She was accompanied by her husband, AIR staffer M. Srinivasa Narasimhamurty on violin and Kotipalli Ramesh of Tirupati on mridangam.Rendering of the rarely heard compositionManasa Mana Saamardhyamemiof Thyagaraja (ApoorvaragamVardhani) withalapana; expansive expatiation ofPrakkalanilabadi(Kharaharapriya) and eruditeragam tanamandpallaviin Jhanjhuti, were the highlights.  A violin recital by Dwaram Mangathayaru, daughter disciple of Padma Sri late Venkataswamy Naidu on the penultimate evening was nostalgic. The recital had her cousins Dwaram Durgaprasada Rao and Dwaram Satyanarayana on violin, Sangeetha Kalaasagara Vankayala Narasimham on mridangam, S. Hanumantha Rao on ghatam and Mandapaka Ravi on kanjira. Elaboration ofTeliyaleru Rama(Dhenuka),Raghuvamsa(Kadhanakutuhalam) and especially theragam tanam pallaviin Kapi with theswarampliably getting shifted intoMohana, Behag, Hindolam, Neelambari and Darbari Kannada reflected enough glimpses of the lithesome technique of her father-Guru both in handling the violin and also the exposition of the Carnatic tradition.TheThanililtingly was a scholarly exercise. Mangathaayaru, who concluded her recital with the traditional lullabyJo Atchutaanandaleft an impression of being totally possessed with the spirit of her father-guru.Starting with the Bhairavi Atathalavarnam, the flute maestro S. Shashank from Chennai cast an enthralling spell till the end.He went on profoundly playingBaagayanayya(Chandrajyoti) with enchantingalapana,Annapurne(Saama),Janani Ninuvina(Reethigoula) withalapanaandswaramand finallyragam tanamin Kalyani with apallaviset in Khandatriputa concluded withswaramin Mohana, Abheri, Hindolam, Behag, Sriranjani and Brindavani.The pristinely pure and characteristicragabhavathat got surfaced in his excellently adapted enharmonic effort, left an impression of being a revelation of Divinity. B.G. Ganesh Prasad on violin, Parupalli Phalgun on mridangam and the veteran VaicomGopalakrishnan on ghatam, all from Chennai, not only lent invigorating support but also came out with commensurable responses in their turns.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/12/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/12/07/stories/2007120750270200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.