(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHeritage harmony
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHATo bring the best of our rich heritage to the youth, Spic Macay organises the Virasat series annually, comprising classical music, dance, theatre, folk arts, film classics, et al in educational institutions. This year's festival, dedicated to the late Ustad Bismillah Khan and spread over 1700 events across the country from September to December, Virasat-2006 was inaugurated at the Vice Regal Lodge, Delhi University, with an outstanding Bharatanatyam dance recital by Sonal Mansingh and a mesmerising flute recital by Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia. Sonal had specially conceived the music and choreographed the dance repertoire for the inaugural concert.Pandit Hariprasad  chose the most celebrated evening raga,  Yaman, for this special event. Right from the initial Nishad, he caressed gradually each subsequent note with his magic touch during the detailed alap-jod, as if invoking the raga with utmost reverence before commencing the slow composition set to Rupak tala of seven beats.Jaijaivanti next, was another attraction of his recital when he played the famous bandish (composition) "Paiyaan paroongi palanga na chadhoongi" set to Teen tala, immortalised by Ustad Faiyaz Khan of the Agra gharana. His disciple Sunil Avachat on the flute and Vijay Ghate on the tabla gave him brilliant support.While the tabla was getting tuned for his concluding dadra in Pilu, his comment was remarkable: "The other instruments need tuning before you play them, but for playing the flute you have to tune your own self (Bansuri nahin, man milana parata hai)."Samrat's festivalOrganised in Mumbai, Goa, Banglore, London, New York and Delhi as "a bond of cultural friendship among the people of the world", Samrat's two-day International Festival of Indian Classical Music, held at Kamani auditorium, opened with a cello recital by Saskia Rao de Haas from the Netherlands. Initiated into Indian classical music by Vidushi Sumati Mutatkar and Deepak Chaudhury, Saskia was groomed by her husband Shubhendra Rao, himself a disciple of Pandit Ravishankar, in the Maihar Senia gharana style. Her alap-jod in the raga Maru Bihag with the typicallaraj-kharajtreatment in the lower octave (the mandra saptak) spoke not only of her hard work but also her commitment to the tradition.After playing two compositions in Jhap tala and Teen tala respectively, she went on to play raga Shivaranjani as well. Her bow produced sitar bols like Dir Dir Darda with remarkable clarity. Durjay Bhaumic accompanied her on the tabla.Blend of gharanasPandit Ulhas Kashalkar's vocal recital was the star attraction of the first evening, with ragas like Nat Bihag, Nayaki Kanhara, Sohani and Bhairavi. Trained in the Gwaliar, Jaipur and Agra gharanas, Kashalkar'sgayakiis a beautiful blend of the subtle nuances of all three styles.The nostalgic bandishes like "Jhan jhan jhan jhan paayal baje" in his opening Nat Bihag, to "Jamuna ke teer" the concluding thumri in Bhairavi, took the discerning audience to the realm of the good old days of Ustad Faiyaz Khan and Ustad Abdul Karim Khan. The sensitivesangat(accompaniment) of Jayaram Potdar on the harmonium and Sanjay Deshpande on the tabla gave him perfect support. Sunanda Sharma presented vilambit and drut khayals in raga Madhuvanti, followed by tappa (Kafi) and thumri (Khamaj) the next day.The festival concluded with some exceptional old bandishes in raga Yaman Kalyan played melodiously on the sitar by Ustad Shujaat Khan. The unusual treatment of Shuddha Madhyam in the mukhara (initial phrase) itself made some of the bandishes sound unique.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092201220200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092201220202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVocalist Ulhas Kashalkar.
p14
ss.