(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFresh twists to old form
p3
sVnews
p4
VDr. Sruti Bandophadhay, the foremost artiste of Manipuri Dance from Rabindra Bharati University, Kolkata, will be performing at the College of Fine Arts, Mysore, under the interstate cultural exchange programs of Sri Lalithakala Academy Foundation in collaboration with the College of Fine arts.Sruti, a doctorate in Manipuri dance was inspired by Rabindranath Tagore'sGeethanajaliand has produced the theatre play, "Bajao Re Mohana Bansi" for the 138th birthday of Tagore. She has plans to produce more plays on Tagore's writings. Slow and undulating Manipuri classical dance basically dwells with Sankirtan and Rass. The underlying theme is normally devoted to Lord Vishnu (Vaishnava cult), in which the male dancer will perform "chakradhars" to the beats on the drums played by himself. Sruti is involved in research of this style for over two decades. She is also presenting a lecture demonstration on classic features of Manipuri dance for the benefit of the students at Regional Institute of Education (NCERT) and the College of Fine Arts, Mysore. The performance will have Maibi Jagoi, Dyuti Sambad (based on Gita Govinda), Pung Cholom, Krishna Narthan, along with group supported by live music.New projectThe Department of Kannada and Culture has launched several innovative projects to promote young talents. The inter-district cultural exchange, Thingala Sobagu and Udyanadalli Udaya Raga, to be held every month had a light music performance by Swamy and group from Mandya at the open air platform of the Javaregowda Park as part of the Thingala Sobagu programme.TalentedVeena concert of Sahana under the aegis of Sri Tyagaraja Sangeetha Sabha, Mysore, started with a varna in Begade, followed by the auspicious raga Hamsadwani ("Parvathi Pathim"). The artiste maintained lucidity in svarakalpana and ragabhava. Delineation of ragas such as Purvi Kalyani ("Paripurna Kama" of Tyagaraja ) and Keeravani ("Kaligiyunte" of the same composer) needed more professionalism. The kritis "Raghuvamsha sudha" and "Akilandeswari" were neatly articulated. P. S. Ramanujam on mridanga and Bhargav on percussion provided good support.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/01/stories/2005070103410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.