(dp1
Vheadline
p2
V&#8216;Awards are being purchased'
p3
sVnews
p4
VHe is often referred to as the Rajnikant of Carnatic music. His concerts have been huge crowd pullers for the past 50 years. His innovative approach and creativity has elevated the traditional playing of the mridangam to the distinguished league of percussion instruments. He is the celebrated percussionist and composer guru Kaaraikuddi Mani &#8212; popularly known as Mani Master &#8212; from Chennai.The master was in Orissa's capital recently to perform at the annual national music festival hosted by Bhubaneswar Music Circle.Excerpts from the interview :You received a national award from the then President S. Radhakrishnan when you were just 18. But for the next four decades you declined to accept any award. Why?I do not believe in awards. Awards do not make one great. Moreover, awards and honours are being purchased these days, literally. Politicians recommend and interfere for awards. So it was wiser for me to stay away from the awards.But you received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award from President K.R. Narayanan in 1999.When I was convinced that eminent musicians selected me for this award, I agreed to accept it. Let me confess that my audience and disciples are my greatest awards. The more audience come to my concerts, I feel greater. Besides, when fellow artistes appreciate and follow my art, I also feel amply rewarded.You have been training thousands of aspiring artistes. How do you assess the new generation artistes?I am worried for the future generation artistes. Most of them take it as a means of survival and not as an art. Easy publicity and awards distract them. They are more after performances and less after sadhana. I wish they realise that artistes have to live like the yogis to be great. Art would beget us respect if we respect it.You have done a lot of fusion with masters of western music but never with the Hindustani artistes. Any reason?There is no such reason. No such opportunity has come my way so far. But I would love to do that some day. I worked with western masters more because I have been constantly touring the West and have frequent interaction with them. I believe that the collaborating artistes must have enough understanding among them to go for a fusion. They must plan properly.How come a busy artiste like you brings out a journal on music?Yes, for the past 15 years, I have been editing and publishing a bi-monthly, Layamani Layam to take Carnatic music to the masses. I was shocked to see that the mainstream media drastically reduced its space for classical arts. Besides, the truth was hardly highlighted. This compelled me to think of a publication that critically evaluates Carnatic music. My disciples help me in bringing it out regularly.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121850390200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/18/images/2009121850390201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMani master Karaikudi mani in Bhubaneswar.
p14
ss.