(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEvergreen songs
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANThe intense orchestration reached a crescendo and settled to a denouement. As the curtain rose, the solitary strains of the violin underlined the melancholy notes of Sivaranjani."Jaane Kahan Gaye Woh Din,"  the famous Mukesh number for Raj Kapoor in his magnum opus, "Mera Naam Joker'' created a sense of solemnity. The voice was that of Nayan Shah.This was at  the eighth musical evening of Divine Mother Society's `Gaata Rahe Mera Dil' in Chennai and the theme was `Immortal Stars, Immortal Songs.'This theme and the selection of songs differed from the earlier programmes. Certainly, a lot of effort and research should have gone into the choice.Barring a few, all the songs were popular and soaked in melody.  Thirty-five songs had been chosen &#151;  of yesteryear stars including Raj Kapoor, Kishore Kumar, Nargis,  Madhubala, Ashok Kumar, Sunil Dutt, Raj Kumar, Rajendra Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar,  Bharat Bushan, Nutan and Usha Kiran.There was a clever blend of solos and duets, poignant and peppy numbers, fast versus slow ones, classic and light.The Hasrat Jaipuri-Shankar Jaikishan combine topped the list with fourteen songs and that was understandable. The female singers Sangeetha and Anita shared equal numbers of solos and duets with the four male counterparts.Lion's shareAmong the male singers, Mohammed Rafi's clone Anil Bajpai had a lion's share of a dozen songs. He was closely followed by sultry Vinod Seshadri, the Kishoreda charmer. Nayan Shah impressed with "Dost Dost Na Raha'' (Sangam, Raj Kapoor) specially. Surojit Guha treated the audience to Hemant Kumar hits, in a voice perfect with the quiver in tact.  "Yaad Kiya Dil Ne'' (Patita - Usha Kiran) and "Aha Rim  Jhim' (Usne Kaha Tha - Sunil Dutt) were both duets with Sangeetha.Anil's bubbly "Teri Pyaari Pyaari Surat'' (Sasural - Rajendra Kumar), classical "Tu Ganga Ki Mauj Mein'' (Baiju Bawra - Bharat Bushan) and the evergreen "Chaudvin Ka Chaand'' (Chaudvin Ka Chaand - Guru Dutt) had a mesmerising effect.  Vinod showed shades of emotions through "Tum Aagaye Noor Aagaya'' (Aandhi - Sanjeev Kumar), "Aa Ri A Jaa'' (Kunwara Baap - Mehmood) and "Beqarare Dil'' (Door Ka Raahi - Ashok Kumar).Touched a chordAnita's youthful "Mujhe Kisi Se Pyaar Ho Gaya' (Barsaat - Nargis) and Sangeetha's agonising "Mohabbat Ki Jhooti"  (Mughal-e-Azam - Madhubala ) and  "Ruk Jaa Raat Teher Ja Re Chanda" (Dil Ek Mandir - Meena Kumari) made their way straight to the listener's heart. One was left wondering, whether it was the songs that catapulted the stars to immortal glory or was it the other way round?The `Ever Green Orchestra' deserves special mention for its compact but very valuable near-original reproduction. Nitpicking? Sure. Some of the post-intermission songs were rather bland.The so-called jokes marred an otherwise interesting and informative compering. `Gaata Rahe Mera Dil,' on the whole, has become an event that Hindi film music buffs look forward to.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/23/stories/2006062302950600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/23/images/2006062302950601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNEAR ORIGINAL: (from left) Surojit Guha, Nayan Shaw, Anil Bajpai, Sangeeta, Anita and Vinod Seshadri.  Photo: R. Shivaji Rao.
p14
ss.