(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFrom one maestro to another
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. SURYA RAONedunuri Krishnamurthy's name is synonymous with Annamacharya Kirthanas. In 1991 he established Nada Sudha Tarangini, a trust with the sole aim of propagating thekeerthanasof the pioneering composer. On behalf of the trust, Nedunuri had already recorded and released five CDs rendered by himself and his senior disciples. Till now he tuned nearly 150keerthanasof Annamayya in classical structure and also printed them with notation in three volumes. Many of his tunes have become immensely popular and are being sung by vidwans all over the country.Last week Nedunuri, while inaugurating a branch of Nada Sudha Tarangini in Vijayawada, stated that the aim of the Trust is to preserve the chaste traditional values of Carnatic music. He also declared that vocal vidwan Malladi Suribabu would be incharge of the Vijayawada branch of Nada Sudha Tarangini and also teach Annamacharya Keerthanas. On behalf of the Trust, Nedunuri honoured senior vidwans Annavarapu Rama Swamy, Dandamudi Ramamohan Rao, P.S.Rao, Garimella Bala Krishna Prasad and Malladi Suribabu. Two brief and melodious vocal concerts followed the felicitation. In the first one Vishnubhotla Sisters Saraswati and Krishnaveni rendered Annamacharya Keerthanas getting good support from B.V.Durga Bhavani (violin), and B.V.S. Prasad (Mridangam). The second concert was a gripping and scintillating vocal duet by Malladi Brothers Sriram Prasad and Ravi Kumar. They sang a few Annamayya compositions inragasHamsanadam, Kannada Gowla , Mohana, Ananda Bhairavi and Neelambari. Good instrumental support was provided by Ampolu Murali Krishna on the violin, M.Vijaya Kumar on mridangam and G. Venkatesh of Visakhapatnam on morsing. Also, two group singing programmes figured in the day's programme. The groups led by K. Seshulata Viswanadh and Neetha Chandrasekher of Hyderabad and Modumudi Sudhakar rendered Annamacharya Keerthanas with devotional fervour. The groups were accompanied by P.Nageswara Rao on violin, M.L.N.Raju and S.Prasad on the mridangam.The highlight of Nada Sudha Tarangini's two-day programme was the felicitation of Sangeetha Kalanidhi Nedunuri by Swarajhari monthly Sabha of Vijayawada. The felicitation was followed by a brief but brilliant concert by Nedunuri, who sumptuously rendered his own tunes of Annamayya Keerthanas. After the concert, Gudipati Lalitha of Eluru released a CD "Gana Sudha" recorded by Modumudi Sudhakar.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032300300200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032300300201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNedunuri Krishnamurthy.
p14
ss.