(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VScholarly recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VNoted flautist (Akashvani A-grade staffer-Hyderabad) V. Nagaraju rendered a recital for Visakha Music and Dance Academy last Sunday at Kalabharathi. Veteran violinist (formerly Akashvani Vijayawada staffer) Kokkanda Subrahmanya Sarma, well-known teachers of Kalabharathi Music School G. Venkata Rao on mridangam and M. Edukondalu on ghatam kept excellent company.Widely known for his flute recitals in and outside the country ever since he won the first prize at the Akashvani national competitions in music in 1985, Nagaraju eruditely rendered an engaging recital with soulful involvement. The accompanying artistes made a concerted effort in keeping the audience regaled for about two and half hours along with Nagaraju.Nagaraju, recipient of many a title from prestigious Sangeetha Sabhas, started the concert withNavaragamalika varnam. He was successful in his effort in getting niceties embedded in the music couched in the attributes of the characteristic sounds of the instrument before they got surfaced. Then after playingAbheeshtavarada(Hamsadhwani) with brief but beautiful aalapana and swaram,Ganamoorthe(Ganamurty) andSree Ramapaadama(Amrithavahini), he exquisitely elaboratedBiranavaraalitchithe(Kalyani). His prefix of aalapana in detail and suffix of swaram in fast tempo were brilliant and helped fortifying the saahityabhava very much.Rama Ika Nannuin the ubhayavakra sampoorna raga Sahana with sublime alapana andRaghuvamsa(Kadanakuthoohalam) suffixed with scintillating swaram were evocatively rendered before he took upMarakathavalli(Kambhoji).He expansively expatiated it with alapana in detail, expansive neravu and elaborate swaram in the two tempos. Rendering the swaram in Paikaalam in ragamalika comprised Keeravani, Mohana, Kapi and Sindhubhairavi, he made it the piece-de-resistance of the evening. With their thani in particular, Venkata Rao and Edukondalu on one hand and Sarma on the other on violin in his turns, immensely contributed to the splendour.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/10/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/10/23/stories/2009102350270200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/10/23/images/2009102350270201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.