(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic is his faith
p3
sVnews
p4
VMEGHA RUPAHere is an artiste with a vision. A vision to make Carnatic music reach the remotest of villages. In other words, take it back to places where it once thrived. Vidwan R.K. Padmanabha has a sonorous baritone voice, a profound understanding of the art coupled with a vast repertoire. He has an unparalleled concert presentation style, reflected by the magic in his music that keeps the audience in rapt attention while they receive the music &#151;  be it through voice modulation, elaborate raga rendition and extensive sarvalaghu kalpana swaras or his unique tanas. "Music is not just a medium of entertainment but a subject of study," he says.Early childhood years seem to play a crucial role in the making of any good musician. But Vidwan R.K. Padmanabha had neither the training nor an ambition to be a musician of this capacity. He was born to Purohit Krishna Dikshitar who was a scholar in the complex Yajurveda and Sharadamma, a dashing, meticulous woman at a village called Rudrapatna in Hassan district that boasts of its cultural heritage through some of the noteworthy musicians and scholars it has produced. The whole village had been his home and all the people his friends! With loads of fun and mischievous pranks, he passed his childhood as a blissful journey from start to finish.He was trained by gurus such as Sitarama Shastry and Nanjundaswamy and later by Prof. H.V. Krishnamurthy of Vijaya College of Music. This gave him an opportunity to listen to some of the great maestros such as Veene Doreswamy Iyengar and Madurai. S. Ramanathan as part of the weekly concerts that were held at the college.At the age of 25, Vidwan R.K. Padmanabha realised a deep bond he shared with music and eventually a calling to popularise Saint Vadiraja, one of the lesser-known composers. Since this musical enlightenment, there has been no looking back. Even with a job in the bank and a family to look after, his love for music has been unflinching. It has been a life of strong determination and hard work for the cause of music. He has tuned hundreds of compositions of the Haridasas, written notations of many valuable compositions of Carnatic music that aid more than 600 disciples today who are being trained under him in groups.R.K. Padmanabha has composed several keertanas, and some of them masterpieces.He is also an orator par excellence. R.K. Padmanabha gives lecture demonstrations, acts in plays and has even constructed the beautiful Vadiraja Bhavana in Bangalore that stands to propagate the art through music concerts and workshops that are held there.In recognition of his groundbreaking achievements, the Rajyotsava Award, the prestigious Ganakalabhushana title from the Karnataka Ganakala Parishat, Purandara Prashasti and other awards have come his way."There must be a bond of respect and love, rather than that of fear towards the guru," holds R.K. Padmanabha. He stresses on building a guru-shishya parampara through what he calls anavinabhava sambhanda. That explains his jolly spirit and those unending humorous anecdotes he shares with his students. He has moulded several youngsters who excel in both music and academics. And he has a rather unusual take on it: "All youngsters must focus on classical music which benefits them in achieving significant growth in their academic career".Unlike most other musicians, R.K. Padmanabha has never succumbed to material attractions. It could be fees from his students or aspiring for visibility through audio releases or to be part of the concert circuit. He is down to earth and democratic, although he's been in the eye of many a storm, be it on the personal or music front.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041402730200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041402730201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VACADEMIC APPROACH  R.K. Padmanabha: `Music is not just for entertainment, but also a subject to be studied.'
p14
ss.