(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrings that sing... and swing too
p3
sVnews
p4
VANJANA RAJANWhen brothers perform together as musicians, it is frequently difficult to tell them apart. Fateh Ali, sitar exponent, might not have had that problem while performing with his brother Murad Ali, since Murad plays the sarangi. But God, they say, always has the last laugh. The two are identical twins. Look at one brother without his instrument in hand, and it would be a merry quest to identify which of the twins he is! But there is one more aspect in which the brothers are as alike as the proverbial peas in a pod: The sweetness of their playing, that marks them out as having ameetha haath(literally, `sweet hand'). It is a talent that runs in the family, since they belong to the seventh generation of a musical dynasty with allegiance to the Moradabad gharana of Hindustani music.It was sarangi that the family was known for till Fateh decided to take up a different set of strings. Recalls Fateh, "We both started learning vocal music together as little boys. When we were 10, Murad opted to play the sarangi. Our grandfather (Ustad Siddique Ahmed Khan) was keen that if we sing, we should perform as a duo. When Murad decided to specialise in the sarangi, I was also asked my preference, and I took up the sitar."Fateh began his sitar training under Guru Satish Kumar of Dharwar. Later he came under the tutelage of Ustad Shamshuddin Faridi Desai, a maestro of the been and sitar. Currently he continues under his father, Ustad Ghulam Sabir Khan. "By the grace of God, one gets to travel a lot for performances," smiles the young man shyly. Born and brought up in Delhi, he just about has a foot in it these days, poised as he is to wing his way to Europe in May, West Asia in June, and various other destinations. Having accompanied top Kathak dancers of India, including Nandini Singh, Rani Khanam and others, he has given a number of solo sitar concerts, besides accompanying his father and brother in their recitals. "Contrary to what people say, classical Indian music is certainly not dead." He does feel though, that a lot of musicians are of very high calibre but do not get a chance to perform. "Some artistes feel too proud to ask for chances. That pride is necessary too. Such people do get frustrated, and I think the agencies that organise shows should think beyond popular music so that classical musicians get a boost." One of the ventures he finds most exciting is his ongoing collaboration with The Core, a jazz band in Norway. "Jazz is very big in Scandinavian countries. In India too fusion is catching on, and I think it is a wonderful thing, as long as you retain your classical base."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041400610200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041400610201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHIS OWN MAN Fateh Ali in New Delhi.   Photo: S. Subramanium
p14
ss.