(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWell-structured and spontaneous
p3
sVnews
p4
VV. BALASUBRAMANIANEerie sounds climaxing into thunderous outbursts that shook the entire auditorium, could not help one think of Steven Spielberg's Jurassic Park. Thanks to the man at the sound system who kept himself busy plugging in and out a myriad of cables that were  the root cause of this DTS sound effect.All this in the middle of an afternoon concert of S. M. Vilasini for R. R. Sabha at the Asthika Samajam, Alwarpet, who began with a varnam in Saveri followed by "Gajavadana" (Sriranjani-Adi-Papanasam Sivan).Dikshitar's "Arunachala Nadham Smarami" (Saranga-Rupakam) rendered well, showed the time this young and up and coming artiste spent onsadhagam.A Keeravani alapana, after a diffident start, was elaborated vividly and  her imagination within the classical parameters came to the fore once she was into its nucleus.It was at this time the DTS effects came in. Vilasini was unperturbed. "Amba Vani" (Adi, Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar) was a pleasant surprise.After a brief kalpanaswara bout, Vilasini went on to present a well-structured Sankarabaranam that was spontaneous where the phrases came cascading one after the other. She is blessed with a voice whose timbre remains the same in all the three sthayis.The sancharas were free flowing like the mountain streams. Tiruvarur N. Balam, the veteran on the violin, matched the youngster phrase to phrase."Manasu Swadeena Maina" (Adi-Tyagaraja) was rendered with impeccable perfection bearing the stamp of a good patanthara.The percussive support of Umayalpuram V. Kalyanaraman (mridangam) and N. Ravichandran (ghatam) was commendable throughout the concert with lively arudhis and korvais.The artiste wound up with a Jayadeva's song tuned in Madhuvanthi.The secretary rushed in, as the team was preparing to leave, requesting one more song.The response was just real time... pat came "Paal Vadiyum Mugam" (Oothukadu, Nattakurunji, Adi), brightly. With a rich voice and a patanthara soaked in tradition, Vilasini is bound to go places.Rich and resonantTrichur Brothers Srikrishna Mohan and Ramkumar Mohan, the latest in the duo genre,  are bestowed with a rich and resonant voice.They did justice to Dikshitar's "Gajananayutham." "Bagaya Nayya" (Chandra Jyothi-Adi-Tyagaraja) was the next, followed by an excellent elaboration of Abogi by both, and "Sabapathikku" (Rupakam-Gopalakrishna Bharathi) was the obvious choice."Akilandeswari" (Dwijawanthi-Adi) was a throaty one. "Raghuvamsasudha" (Kadhanakudhuhalam-Adi-Patnam Subramania Iyer) came in like a googly.Full credit to the brothers for presenting a nearly extinct song. Poorvikalyani was the main ragam.The alapana was once again shared by the duo, chartered accountants, like in a relay. Abogi was thoroughly researched but the same cannot be said about Purvikalyani. It lacked Sukhanubhavam and was more a deluge of akaraa phrases.The Ikara, Makara and Ukara angas of an alapana were absent and so also the silent rests between phrases. Fast, Faster and Fastest! This could have satisfied the gallery but not the discerning rasika.Meera Sivaramakrishnan exhibited a matured and right approach in the raga essay in spite of slippery and anaemic bowing.Trichur Mohan (mridangam) and Vaikkom Gopalakrishnan (ghatam) combined  well for the kirtanas while the tani was lacklustre.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012002870800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.