(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFine show of classicism
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKIt was an ebullient performance by R.K.Srikantan for Carnatica to prove that rigorous, disciplined sadhaka in the early years can defy age. Effectiveness of the performing technique went hand-in-hand with traditional strength. His music shone by the way he struck a balance between vocal and manodharma endurance linked to dignity. The concert typified the élan of a seasoned musician.The method of alapanas and songs was an emphatic assertion of the superiority of sampradaya training. The values and creativity had lofty overtones. There were two factors that created an impression of distinction &#151;  the control of the voice at his age and steadfastness to classicism.Rich tapestryThe raga alapanas of Mayamalavagowla ("Vidulaku Brokkeda"), Todi ("Ennaalu") and Kalyani ("Nijadasa Varada") were richly worked out. The interplay of karvais, madhyamakala sancharas and depth revealed what traditional music stands for. One could not but relish the vintage music he provided.The performance as a whole went beyond the confines of artistic concerns to hold aloft the excellence of musical heritage.The rendering of songs was a reverential attempt to get to the roots of sampradaya sangita. The kind of music he provided defined his place among the veterans.Interesting contrastIt was interesting to see contrasting styles between father and son Rama Kanth in the alapana pattern and swaraprasthara techniques. The recital ended on a serene note of two Purandaradasa items.The solo raga versions of the violinist, Nagai Muralidharan, were of a style wedded to substance.  His portraits of Mayamalavagowla and Kalyani were particularly rich with musical intimacy.Umayalpuram Sivaraman's radiant rhythm was meticulously accurate. In tune with the overall spirited tenor of the vocalist, his tani was frenzied and roaring with emphasis on technical virtuosity. Laya delineation was carefully structured and moved in the exalted sphere of percussive passion. Sree Sunderkumar (kanjira) shared the ecstatic environment that Sivaraman created.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802610800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802610801.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVINTAGE STUFF: R.K. Srikantan (right) and R.S. Ramakanth .
p14
ss.