(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBright spark
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARWhatever he does, he does with superb ease and masteryTwenty-year-old Thyagaraju's solo violin concert under the aid of Kalasagaram last week highlighted the talent of yet another promising artist in the twin cities. He is a third generation violinist of the Peri family, having taken after his father and guru Sriramamurthy and grandfather Subba Rao.Show of talentThyagaraju may have not yet attained the professional penetration but whatever he does, he does with superb ease and mastery. He fulfils difficult tasks with elegance and charm. Each piece runs its predestined course with consistency although holistically it sounds a little mechanical. Innovativeness comes with age and experience. Thyagarju has the potential to innovate. The two-hour concert capsulated his style, and reflected a mind both sharp and profound.The concert was chaste, unabashed, free from by digressions and unaffected behaviour. To make critical remarks of his abilities is unfair, yet suggestions should be of great help to the up and coming youngster. For instance, hisalapanapart needs a design and the approach for each raga has to be different failing which monotony sets in. Even hisswarakalpanaexercises need imaginativekoruvaisdecorated with myriadnadais; on the contrary all through such exercises, the dominantnadaiwaschathusram.Thyagaraju is rather unsteady with thekalapramanaand has a tendency to race, which if not corrected at this stage, will stay deep-rooted and it will be difficult to win over it later. Nevertheless what has achieved at this age is commendable.Natakuranji varnampresented inthri-kalamwas a key example of the relentless practice of the artist. The tough exercise was effortlessly executed. Amongst a dozen items that ran the intended course,Bhairavi (upcharamu)andMohana (bhavnuitha)stood out. If the former was a relaxed and emotional rendering, the latter was one of rhythmic ecstasy.The form ofalapanafor the both the ragas were reasonably good but they essentially lacked proper design for want of appropriate balance. Theswarakalpanaagain was average and lacked imaginative combinations.Thyagarju's sense ofsrutiis creditable.Neravalin instrumental playing is of less significance and occupies inconsequential import for the simple reason that lyric is not so well perceptible. Thayagaraju's disclaim of the facet therefore, is pardonable.His ability to improvise may not yet mature but the fact remains that there should be no more improvisation in the actual performance than is absolutely necessary.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072101490300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072101490301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VThyagaraju in concert.
p14
ss.