(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVelvet vocals
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIThe South Indian Cultural Association (SICA) recently presented N. Ramamurthy, a young vocalist of great promise at the  Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan.The  programme was organised in memory of the late Carnatic vocalist&#151;  Kalyani Balakrishna Iyer, whose husband donated Rs 1 lakh  to SICA, to promote young artistes by giving them  a platform to perform. Ampolu Muralikrishna on the violin and Aravind on the mridangam accompanied Ramamurthy.The fact that Ramamurthy's concert was well attended filling the spacious Rajaji auditorium of Vidya Bhavan itself reflects how he wins his audience with promising recitals. On this occasion he appeared to have well prepared to sing in this majorsabhaSICA by coming out with two major raga essaysBhairavi, the highlight of concert andShanmukhapriya,asPallaviraga. Singing with traditional approach in chaste style, Ramamurthy opened up well in the rendition of Bhairavi and as he scaled the octaves with comfort. . The melody was built observing sense of proportion and discipline. To impress with the rendition ofBhairavi, which difficult to please with, is in itself a certificate for him. He chose Shyama Sastry'sSari Evaramma,impressively packed with a meaningfulnerevaland interestingswara prasthara. The RagamTanam Pallavitoo gained importance as he detailed the raga. TheTanampart too was well sung, before he began his pallavi inKhanda Triputa.The pallavi ran asMatangi Sriraja Rajeswari Dayasalini Mamava&#151; -All praise to the goddess with a plea to save us. The pallavi's natural and meaningful repetition gave it a devotive appeal.  He began vigorously withKalyani Ata Thalavarnam. Sriganapathini in Sourashtram, a sweetNadasudharasain Aarabhi coupled withswarasin it gave enough build for neat essaying of Pantuvarali.Ninne Nera Namminanurawas his choice in this with musical variations that continued innerevalandswaraparts too. Muralikrishna on the violin did add his  versions of raga play while Arvind sounded sounded intuitive on the mridangam. Thyagaraja'sBadalika Teera pavvalimpain Reethi Gowla proved to be a good cap for the  concert. Earlier in the evening, awards were given away to winners in the recent Carnatic vocal music competitions held at the Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/03/stories/2006030301690300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/03/images/2006030301690301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VN. Ramamurthy
p14
ss.