(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCatch it, don't regret it
p3
sVnews
p4
VEver opened the engagements column of a newspaper, saw an announcement about your favourite artists' performance and regretted having to miss it because you didn't know early enough to have kept the evening free? The music sabhas have a similar feeling  -   -   if only they knew this artist was going to be in town, they too would have organised another programme  -   -   a lecture-demonstration or a workshop  -   -   or used the opportunity to approach the artist for a future engagement. Also, many a music/dance lover has had to forego a much-awaited recital because there was no transport facility back to his area at that time of the night. Or attended one but felt let down by the poor acoustics or lighting of the hall, just as the artist himself/herself did.For years, sabhas, artists, and audiences had to contend with these problems with little by way of help or remedy. And there are a nearly estimated 50 sabhas, some even a 100-years old, and tens of thousands of art lovers. Finally, however, someone has got down to doing something about it. Or, rather, made a beginning in this direction.Professor N.S. Ramaswamy, of the Indian Heritage Academy (IHA), ex-director, IIM, Bangalore and a well-known patron of the arts has come up with a solution that might just work giving a big fillip to the city's art scene. If all the sabhas, organisers, artists and those concerned with these activities came together under one forum and some kind of informal umbrella organisation, the resulting synergies could give a big boost to the music and dance scene. Something like the Fine and Performing Arts (FPA) wing of the IHA.MeasuresAlong with the support of likeminded people like K.S. Ramanath, Sree Ramakrishna Bhajan Sabha, and Brigadier N.H. Narayan, etc., they have just met and drawn up a list of measures to achieve this aim. These include bringing out a newsletter which will alert readers about all forthcoming events of all sabhas, and setting up a common website which will include this event-alert among other things. To publish a directory of all sabhas, individual organisers, both main and accompanying artists, list of music/dance/art schools etc is also on their agenda. They are even trying to persuade the transport department to arrange buses at the venue, to take people back home to different directions after the programme.Increase audience participation by promoting music/dance appreciation among Bangaloreans, especially the youngsters. As Usha Srinivasan, a respected music teacher and accomplished singer points out, most of the programmes today attract largely people in the age group of 50 to 70. They also propose to encourage young artists by giving them the needed exposure and performance opportunities and employ talent-scouting measures to identify new and deserving ones. Apart from this and many more, they desire to help aged artists who are languishing for want of financial security.As Prof. Ramaswamy explains, this would entail regular meetings of and coordination among the sabha-managements, artists and individual patrons/art lovers to exchange information and other resources. But wont it be difficult to bring together so many disparate organisations and voices together?Yes, concedes K.S. Ramanath: "This, in fact, will be the biggest challenge. And we want to allay apprehensions that this move will mean that any sabhas' individuality or freedom will be affected. It is only an informal, umbrella group which will actually benefit everyone by allowing them to draw on the combined strengths and resources of the group."They welcome suggestions from both public and the artists' community on how best this effort can be carried forward. For details contact 25530121 or 93428 85986, 93412 59312. Email:cartman@vsnl.comARUNA CHANDARAJUBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/21/stories/2005102104170300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/21/images/2005102104170304.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTHE FUTURE HOLDS HOPE Take your pick from here! Now there's a group that's working out the logistics to get you to your favourite star's concert PHOTOS: SAMPATH KUMAR G.P., V. GANESAN, MAHESH HARILAL
p14
ss.