(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith all its grandeur
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. R. C. IYENGARThe five-day annual festival of Chandrasekharendra Sangeeta Educational Society came up last week with all grandeur, which spoke of the Herculean efforts of the general secretary Chandrasekhar.The inaugural concert was by O.S. Thyagarajan (OST). OST has that animated ambition, the warmest predilection of his own style and the purest love of spiritual perception.  He is never hasty, and he never languishes. Art in the case of OST disciplines itself from incalculable curves and superfluous decorations to the sober simplicity of strait lines and structural form.All this apart, the concert of the day had its own image, a little out of focus. Poignantly it was patently imbalanced. Take for instance the major item of the day,kharaharapirya. The excellent portrayal of the raga went on for the 25 minutes with endless repetitions ofsangathis.  A long duration of an exercise likealapanaby itself may not prove a positive factor, it should meticulously  repetitions. OST should bear this in mind. Yet another lacuna is thekrithiitself. The song commences with the wordsmitri bhagyame, where it ought to besoumitri bhagyame. This is evident in theanupallavi, commencing with the wordschitrarathnamayaand ending withsoumitri bhagyame. This debate is in the air for long.It is meaningful therefore, to commence the song with anupallavi as great signers like Nedanuri do. The concert included items,varnamin Sahana,elvatraamuin Devamritavarshini,endukunirdayain Harikamboji,needayaradain Vasantha Bhairavi. Vittal Ramamurthy extended erudite support, while Balaji on the mridangam came out with routine display.Coming as it did the next day, Nithyasri's vocal concert was different from that of OST's. The union of subtlety and clarity, in imposing architecture of thought can be credited to Nithyasri, but the depth and importance of her grandmother, Pattammal is wanting. A style of her own is indeed impressive by itself. Her voice is richly cultured and thea-karas, contrary to the easierbrigas(more so in the lower octaves) is commendable. The items on the day's concert were perhaps away from the beaten track, but barely impressive. After theKedaragowla varnam, thekrithi,manasa etulorthunehad some unconventionalsangathisbut unimposing. The text in the following krithi inSahanawas unmusical in the sense it was more of a prose order. The composition intherata suryawas equally disheartening, more so as it is by itself, aVivadi Dosha raga. The otherkrithiinMohana,nannupaliumpahad inadequatesangathis. Pakala Ramadas on the violin and Shiv Kumar and Ramanamurthy on the percussion were sedate and did very little to enhance the dignity of the concert.Final citadelThe emphasis of Sanjay Subramaniam's royal style is the final citadel of his faith. Magnificent in the splendour of his confidence and magnificent of course, in the power, and reach of his voice, his music is a pearl without price, valued beauty, which is sometimes attainable by a few others, but objectively, always escapes; a miracle of glowing colour and flowering grace, to listen to him for the first time is like discovering the odes of Keats.  No other singer is equivalent to him in lucidity or power of scholarship.The concert lasting three hours riveted the listeners to the chairs and not a soul stirred till themangalamwas spelt out. The secret of his success is based on his discerning impulse in every event like selection of thekrithi, the ragas,kalapramanam, variety ofthala, their time and place, choice ofvaggeyakaras, management of time and more importantly carrying the audience with him. . After a briskvarnam, the ragas that were selected wereChakravakam, Ritigowla, Kalyani, Kharaharapriya, Kamach, Begadaand presented in that order. Intelligently watched, the ragas were found to be complementary and thekrithisdiffering inthala, each with a specific theme and message. Varadarajan's cool response in every faculty; the delightful innovations of Arun Prakash and the scholarly contribution of Somajayulu on ghatam, left the audience dumbfounded.Flute prodigyIf there are prodigies galore who are made, born ones are rare; flute maestro Sashank is one such. In a short time he has proved himself one of the leading experts. The feeling for form and rhythm, for precision and clarity, for proportion and order are  credit to  his learning. It is just not that only; he has gained enormous experience and has also perfected the stagecraft.  The day's performance was one with extremes; perfect classicism on one side and mediocre menu on the other, overwhelming precision in speed and bewildering mastery over thelayaat one moment and overplayingswarakalpanaat the other.Shashank has developed the skill of changing thenadaiandkalpramanamhalf way through (and get back again to the original); sometime all these manipulations likelaya, kalapramana, and change ofnadaihappen frequently and rapidly, within oneavartha(cycle of thetaala) that, much of the imaginative work goes unrecognised or even unperceived by the common listener. Shashank starts every item with great dignity, moves with abiding care and interest but soon switches on to fast (drita) mode and even faster (athidruta) mode. Amongst the items he playedKharaharapriyastood out while others included avarnamin Saveri,ganamurthiin the ragaGanamurthiandRanjani. Sashank was accompanied on the violin by Mysore V. Srikanth and on the mridangam by Phalgun and Ramanamurthy.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/02/stories/2007020200640300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/02/02/images/2007020200640303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSashank.
p14
ss.