(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic all the way
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARYear after year,  Kalasagaram is gaining distinction and yet facing a watershed in the choice of  artistes for its annual festival. In reality it is true of every organisation, for, the countable few (artistes) reap the harvest with iniquitous claims and yet lace their performances with repetitive and routine recitals. The audience in turn, squares up with the regular and routine for lack of any alternative.The 38th Annual Festival of Kalasagaram conducted last week, had again the usual squad with TVS, Sanjay, Sudha, Priya Sisters, and OST. Kalasagaram also chose the occasion to honour O.S.Thyagarajan with the title,Kalasagaraand the dancer Rajeswari Sainath with the title,Nrithya Kalasagara.The inaugural programme was a vocal recital by O.S. Thyagarajan (OST). Embar Kannan accompanied him on the violin, Karaikkudi Mani on the mridangam and N. Amrit on the kanjira.As always on such occasions, considerable time was lost with speeches and presentations and the concert was reduced to just a little beyond two hours.Clarity, lucidity, originalityOST is a much-admired artiste, but it is difficult to say why. His music has not got the sparkle of popular singers, beauty of style or mastery of technique. Basically it is distinguished by great clarity and lucidity of structure. Ideas are well moulded and cannot be effaced easily and it is a manner of unification that matters.He fulfils great and difficult tasks with all the classiness and charm without the slightest strain or uncertainty. He avoids exaggeration and passion, but appeals to the mature mind by understatement and restraint; it is seldom romantically excited in form, but he knows how to express intense feeling in its own quietly classical way. His presentation is ascetically simple, aesthetically perfect, and architecturally unique.Here is originality without extravagance, strength without brutality and a dramatic portrayal of impulse, emotion and mood without disfigurement by any strained intensity.OST's strong point is his immaculatesruti gnanama feature, which contributes a major component to the success of a concert. His experience and the repertoire are yet another factors where he has unlimited choice with time and mood to design his concert. The selection was pragmatic, intelligent and aesthetic, each chosen for a specific facet to be projected.The simplevarnamin theraga sriimmediately built up the tempo.Birnavarainkalyaniset toadi talam, thisra nadaiwas exhilarating and the rhythmic module highlighted. The contrastingraga darbarhad a short essay of thealapanaand thekriti, munduvenukaof Thyagaraja conveyed the emotional aspect. The rare songentativinuvinturaof Pallavi Seshaiyer in the uncommonraga urmika(a derivative of simhendramadhyamam) shook the audience with a unique delight. A crispalapanaofsriranjanishowed the way tomarubalka.In terms of scholarship, hisswarakalpanafor the song and thekuraippuexercise at the difficult and trickyeduppu(commencing point) was outstanding. OST takes particular care to see that all the musical essentials are projected in right proportion but does not exaggerate any.The elaborate raga alapana ofkamboji, was exhaustive and ecstatic. Although thekriti, evarimatawas short in presentation, theneravalandswarakalpanaproved to be stimulating. The concert was concluded with some lighter items and athillana. If OST had only included an item inmisra chapu thalam, the concert would have been complete in every aspect. Embar Kannan one of the leading violin accompanists came out with a challenging counterpart and plentifully added to the melodies of OST, each excelling the other.Matchless maestroIt is a matchless enjoyment to listen to the mridangam of the maestro, Karaikkudi Mani. He is virtually a creator of divine rhythm. His art lies in the skill of arranging sound in the clearest order, in rhythmic but not metrical sequence, in polished but not ornate diction, in smooth transitions of sound and thought, in balanced phrases and in cumulative dissertation. Besides his unsurpassed contribution throughout the concert, thethaniwas celestial. The art of changing overnadais(metrical manipulations) duringthaniyavarthanamneeds great expertise, in the sense that such changes are made unnoticeable and smooth. One should listen carefully maestros like Mani, to appreciate this. The contribution of N. Amrit on the kanjira in the entire episode and in thethani, in particular, exemplified the teamwork.On topThe next vocal concert in the series was by Sudha Raghunathan. V.V. Srinivasa Rao accompanied her on the violin, Naively Skandasunbramaniam (violin) and R. Raman (morsing). Presenting classical concert music to packed audience month after month, year after year, is a gruelling task. True, it is thrilling but to have to stay at the top is exasperating and even tiresome. She has been an endless success because of her resilient ingenuity. Expressiveness, sentiments, elegance and love of details constitute the theme in her music; all have a harmonious flow. There is proportion and order, form and rhythm, precision and clarity, all in moderate form. Beyond moderation, even perfection becomes oppressive! Each of her performance is built like a temple, wherein every part is carefully finished in detail, but has subordinate place in the whole.The concert commenced with thepada varnaminharikamboji, a composition of Mysore Maharaja, followed bysidhivinayakaminshanmugapriya. It is said that music can make one weep; the audience indeed did when Sudha came out with classic composition of Shyamasastry,nannubrovumu lalitha, in theraga lalitha. It was exceedingly emotional.Theraga sahanawas delineated well and the uncommonkrithi, vaidehi thavapada bhaktimwas fascinating. Although themudraof Thyagaraja is there it is doubtful if it is his.Ni alladu edayya gatiinchalanata, of kotiswaraiyer, was yet another touching picture. Thealapanaoftodiwas appealing although it could certainly have been better. Thekrithi, koluvamaragatha,the accompanyingneravalandswarakalpanawere just customary.The RTP calls for comments. It was aragamalika pallaviconsisting ofkalavathi, kirvani,andkalyani. The namegowriwas also mentioned in the lyric but for lack of theraga lakshnana, it should be presumed as a part of the lyric and not significant of theraga.Thepallaviwas set tokhandajati thriputa thalam, khanda nadaiconsisting of 45 pulses per cycle. It was a marathon work out, which needed incredible concentration; it was more academic than melodious.Raghavendra Rao was at a low key on his violin, while, Skanda Subramanyam on the mridangam and Raman on the morsing made merry on their instruments.Budding singerChandra Banu's vocal concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram confirmed that there is no dearth of performing artistes in the discipline of Carnatic music. The only thing found wanting was the will of the organisers to project them.Chandra Banu has been putting in her best effort to prove herself as an excellent performing artiste. Endowed with a delicate voice, with a nasal twang, she has a confident approach to her performances. While the talent is there in good measure, what she perhaps needs is experience and appropriate guidance.In this context, it is necessary for any artiste to motivate himself or herself to excel in areas likealapana,neravalandswarakalpana. Chandra Banu would do well to redesign thealapana, since it sounds pedestrian.The desire to indulge in richly rehearsed longkoruvaisinswarakalpanais yet another weakness in many of the contemporary artistes, not to mention Chandra Banu  -   a practice which is deprecating and artistically hollow.Her concert had some pleasing items, although the sequence could have been more judicious. She started well with the popularvarnamin the ragaSri.RaghunayakainHamsadwaniwas the right choice thereafter. Thechitta swarasthat were woven in thekritiwas juvenile and redundant.RamabiramainDarbarwas well presented but had some howlers in the lyric. Again thechitta swarasin the song was superfluous.AparadhamulainlathangiandShankari NiveinBegadaleft the boredom ofAnthara Gandharaoft repeating and the contrast between items was not visible. An interveningSadharana Gandraitem could induce colour to the sequence. It did come all right in the next itemDasaratheinTodi, but the time lag was telling.The concert concluded with some impressive items like,Vinarada Na ManviinKedragowlaandAkhilandeswariinDwijavanti. One can easily identify the style of her guru Sesahchari in her singing.Nevertheless, Chandra Banu should make efforts to add her own individuality at this level of her performance.Peri Thyagaraju accompanied her on the violin and Burra Sriram on the mridangam. Peri Thyagaraju, the disciple of his father Srirmasmurthy, is one of the promising violinists of the younger generation and his contribution for the concert was creditable.Young Sriram on the mridangam was confident and at ease. Histhirmanamin thethaniwas imaginative and splendid. All in all, the concert was well received by the large audience and proved an encouraging facet to the artistes.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/02/stories/2005120201750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/02/images/2005120201750303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VChandra Bhanu
p14
ss.