(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAwards galore
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANEE KUMARWith the `Vishista Mahila Sanmanam' on International Women's Day, danseuse/singer Smitha Madhav has indeed come a long away. Though she is no stranger to awards and citations, ever since she donned the role of little Sita inBala Ramayanam, Smitha was overwhelmed with the recent recognition. "As a child you never realise the value of an award. At the most it's close to a gift. But being felicitated with the woman achiever's award on a special day like this is different. It speaks of my abilities judged over a number of years, my contribution to the field of fine arts and above all my responsibility in living up to the honour.''The youngest recipient of the award, Smitha feels enriched by the tribute. Her 2007 diary is full with prestigious offers and assignments all of which, she feels, "are after my heart. So far what all I did was what I was taught by my gurus both in the field of dance and music. Hereafter, I have to tap my creative potential - research, choreograph, set compositions to tune and rhythm and present them without sacrificing on their originality and innate sweetness and depth,'' she says as she sits down to practice her new set ofAnnamacharya sankeertanams.The TTD has vested the young singer with a collection of recently unearthed rare compilations of Annamayya songs for the saint-poet's `Vardhanti'. Smitha has chosen eight songs, set them to tune and will renderthem for the first time on the inaugural day of Annamayya Vardhanti celebrations. "So far these compositions were not sung by anyone. They are raw and need to be tuned to vocal singing. I want to present theaadyatmic(spiritual) ones and not theshringara(erotic) with due respect to the occasion,'' explains Smitha. This apart, the TTD's latest venture into bringing the devotional poetess Tarigonda Vengamamba to light has also opened the doors for Smitha's musical expertise. She will be recording two classical solo tracks for the TTD's Vengamamba project on March 17."Rajkumar Bharati great grandson of Bharatiyar has set tune to the songs. I have been givinga dance drama -Rama Parinayam- penned by the famous poetess. The composition being inkhanda chapuI am busy working out with a scholar as to how best to adapt it to the dance mode. Meanwhile, individual songs of Vengamamba which are not only brief but follow a systematic format like apallaviandanupallavi- of these again I have chosen to present in dance format eight songs as requested by the TTD," she says.Simultaneously, Smitha is going ahead with her film on Sri Vengamamba being produced by Madala Janakiram where she plays the title role. The shoot enters its third and final schedule and will be ready by May when this artiste is earmarked for yet another award instituted by Vamsee-the M.S. Subbulakshmi Memorial Award."It's all divine grace and blessings of my elders without which I am nothing,'' is the modest response to the compliments showered on this multi-talented achiever.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/16/stories/2007031600910300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/16/images/2007031600910301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSmitha Madhav.
p14
ss.