(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMix and match
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAOne of the foremost Flamenco pianists of Spain, Javier Coble was in New Delhi the other day to present a concert of traditional, classical contemporary Spanish and Flamenco music at the IIC Experience. It is a pleasure talking to him and know more about him and his art.Born in 1966, Javier studied music at the National Conservatory in Madrid under prestigious contemporary musicians such as Pedro Iturralde and Luisde Pablo. A professional musician since the age of 19, he has worked in a number of projects with several artistes like Ketama, Vicente Soto, Shirley MacLaine, Patric Bruel and others.He has performed `De Azabache y Plata' with the National Ballet of Spain, with choreography by the famous danseuse Mayte Bajo not only in Albeniz Theatre of Madrid but also at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow and the Merkin Concert Hall in New York. He also has this as the title of his latest CD. No wonder he has received awards for original music for choreographic works of Mayte Bajo and Elena Martin etal.Asked what is the difference between European classical and the Spanish tradition, he says there is a lot of difference, adding, "There are common features also and I adopt this common link. There is also a difference of mood in classical Spanish and the Flamenco because of the difference in the rhythm. Flamenco is more vibrant due to the faster tempo also."Versatile composerAs a composer and interpreter, Coble has been associated with the topmost Spanish companies and has been awarded the Special Jury prize for his composition `Coincidences'. Disclosing the secret of his success as a versatile composer he says that apart from the piano, he also plays percussions like tarbuka, kakhoon, the wooden box played with Flamenco, and the Indian tabla. Among string instruments he plays the Swedish nickelharpa and the hardigardi like the Indian sarangi. He also plays the Scandinavian flute. Coble says, "I need to play all these instruments because I am a composer. Different sounds are like different colours to me. I think music and painting are similar. You need a multitude of colours for a vibrant painting; so it is music. Every instrument has a different colour. The Indian tanpura and the bamboo flute have a very special colour. They are like waves. I like to incorporate all these different colours in my compositions."Javier loves Indian classical music, specially the sitar, sarod and santoor. He has learnt to play the tabla and has used it in his compositions for Flamenco dances. Indian music, he says, has its own expression. "I am careful while dealing with it as a composer." He collaborates with well-known artists on projects like revival of ancient Spanish music and music for television and Flamenco dance.He has done research aimed at adapting the rich language of Flamenco to the contemporary piano. As a result, he is comfortable with the traditional, classical and contemporary Spanish Flamenco with seasoning provided by percussions and instruments from all over the world. But, he says, "I try it all with classical piano technique."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/11/stories/2005111102560200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/11/images/2005111102560201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFOR THE COLOUR OF THE SOUND Javier Coble says different sounds are like different colours to him
p14
ss.