(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSoul song
p3
sVnews
p4
VThree winter days of Ganga Mahotsava  yielded three rare experiences. The first night on the banks of the Ganga, a huge audience on the open stairs soaked in  the feeling of tranquillity when Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma carried out  a dialogue in silence with his stringed instrument, the santoor, the tabla  by maestro Pandit Kishan Maharaj and his grandson Shubh Maharaj. The mnemonic quality of the santoor and the artistic fingers of Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma combined to create  the  form of raga Rageshri. It was almost midnight. Though it is difficult to execute a  meend ( gliding from one note to another) in this folk instrument,  the calibre of Pandit Sharma enhanced the swar-vistar of this beautiful raga. As usual,  Pandit Kishan Maharaj mesmerised the  audience and left a long-term imprint in their hearts. But there was a difference.  He accompanied as he had accompanied for the first time with Pandit Nikhil Banerji.MemorableThe next night was memorable because  Manasi Mazumdar  performed here for the first time. She  elaborated raga Joga with all its graces.  Kishan Ramdokar, a disciple of Pandit Ramji Mishra, accompanied  competently on the tabla.Pandit Tejendra Narain Mazumdar (disciple of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan) and Kalapini Komkali (disciple of Pandit Kumar Gandharva) brought grace to the last evening. Tejendra presented raga Bihag on the sarod. He came from Kolkata, whereas Sandeep Das (disciple of Pandit Kishan Maharaj) came from New Delhi to accompany him on the tabla. Alap, jod and jhala were presented in  a dignified manner. At present Tejendra is the only sarod player in his genre whose strokes reverberate with  full gravity. Though it was a solo performance, yet the jugalbandi between them was impeccable, just like when he plays  with Sapan Chowdhury and Anindo Chatterjee on the tabla.On the same stage Kalapini presented two ragas (vilambit and drut, including Kalyan) with two bhajans. Her powerful voice, Kumar ji's grace and constant riyaaz  ensured a fine presentation.Later she presented a Malwa folk and Kabir pada, "Sunta hai guru Gyani",  made popular by Kumar Gandharava.GAUTAM CHATTERJEEBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120801610200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.