(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCriss-crossing of cultures
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Republic of Poland is celebrating the bicentennial birth of their most famous musician &#8211; Frederic Chopin &#8211; with concerts and events in various Indian cities. The ever-enterprising Aruna Sunderlal bagged the honour for Bangalore, with Bangalore Music Society's Evening of Chopindiana Music &amp; Dance, &#8220;a cultural bridge between the two countries&#8221;, at the Alliance Francaise on November 18.Prof. Jerzy Sterczynski opened the evening with a short recital of Chopin pieces. It was not the typical programme that Chopin fans probably expected, with the Nocturne - a form almost synonymous with this Romantic composer - being notably absent. Inclusion of the two very popular Polonaises compensated, though the C# minor Etude &amp; 3 Mazurkas were not as well-known.Polonaises were the book-ends of his recital. Though it is a Polish dance form, these two examples of the genre are rousing, with a markedly equine pace, evocative of chivalrous knights riding into battle, though his interpretation of the A Major Polonaise Op 40 #1 was perhaps a trifle unvaried in that quality. Or it could have been that the piano sounded a bit too bright and harsh at the start, but fortunately mellowed as the performance progressed. However, his rendition of the &#8220;Heroic&#8221; Polonaise in A-flat Major Op 53 was as definitive and masterful as one is likely to hear.The Etude had some passages of that triste one particularly associates with Chopin, tenderly delivered by Sterczynski, contrasting with the virtuoso runs that he handled with equal ease. In order to illustrate how Chopin denoted the Mazurka's typical waltz beat in very different ways, Sterczynski chose 3 Marzurkas in Op 50. The second &#8211; A-flat Major &#8211; was the most appealing, with its dance quality best defined.Sterczynski's interpretation of Chopin was interestingly different, perhaps because of a certain indefinable Polishness. Or it could have been his pacing that made his playing unique: he paused almost imperceptibly before certain phrases, so that they were brought into sharper focus. That one heard a Polish musician interpreting a most illustrious and well-loved compatriot composer, made the performance special.The second part of the programme was a merging of music and dance, Ashish Khokar's idea of cultural cross-fertilisation between the two countries. The Indian component was provided by Madhu Nataraj's STEM Kampani, well-known for its blend of modern dance and traditional Indian dance forms. The troupe gave a visual and kinetic construct to Chopin's Bacarolle which Sterczynski played on the piano. One of Chopin's most evocative and lovely pieces, the dance was a lyrical interpretation, perfectly suggesting the boat's gently rocking motion. The dancers were all liquid grace, though the blue and white sheets were perhaps too literal as suggestions of waves.The next item was a wholly Indian contribution to the programme: three short dances which showcased qualities for which this group is justly renowned. Tandava was a vigorous display of martial arts movements, while Mandala had amazing interplay of dance with incredible graphics projected on the backdrop. Sanjog gave modern twists to kathak steps and movements, yet another example of how well dance can bridge two time-frames. All three pieces had stunning music &amp; sound effects, specially composed for the dances.The finale was STEM's dance to a recording of Chopin's Piano Concerto in E Minor, 3rd Movement. The choreography and performance captured its skippingly exhilarating quality, though some movements tended to be rather repetitive. The western element was underlined in the incorporation of some ballet movements. STEM's dancers displayed joyous energy, grace and good interaction and brought an unusual slant to a western piano recital, justifying the evening's nomenclature, Chopindiana.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/26/stories/2010112650780200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.