(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConveying an emotional message
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARKalasagaram projected one more up and coming artiste B. Jayasree last week. Jayasree, disciple of Vedavalli (daughter of Salem Challam Iyengar), maintained the classical tradition and the style was ornately attractive. Jayasree has truly imbibed the valued features in her singing and the three-hour concert was a reflection of these features in word and spirit.Contemporary music is gradually losing its grandeur and it is gratifying to see artistes such as Jayasree revive the culture. Although the concert was rich in all respects, Jayasree has rather poor voice, which is more due to the wrong practice she adopts. She fails to sing with full throttle and instead holds back the natural tone. She can very well afford to applymellinum-vallinum(thick and thin) modulation of the voice to bring out the splendour of the melody. Her scholarship is evidently rich and repertoire enviable. Her raga alapana is mature and the swarakalpana is tailored with attractive combinations progressing in well-choreographed capsules.Steering away from the beaten tract, the selection included some of the rare and attractive songs, and by itself, the performance gained a special interest and appeal. A varnam in the ragamkaanadawas the first lure. `Sri Mahaganapathe' innaattaistarting at the high octave had the desired impact. A Tamil composition inataanawas rich in emotion. `Ardhanareeswaram' insubha pantuvaraliuwas rich in raga bhava. A composition of Purandara Dasa inkalyana vasanthawas a singular contribution. The ragadarbarwas rich in classicism and the krithi, mundu venuka of Thyagaraja was highly imaginative. Kalyani was chosen for RTP and the popular pallavi, `Un darisanam kidaikkumo Nataraja', set to adi thalam had all the richness of convention. Jayasree is evidently a devoted singer. Sheconveys an emotional message to the ardent listener, whose interest is not only technical but of intellectual nature.Dinakar on the violin was confident as usual and his input was in right proportion and at the right place. He should perhaps add some grace to his playing instead of being involuntary. At the same time the nadam he produces in the instrument is laudable. Peravali Jaya Bhaskar on the mridangam is still young but with the skill he has, he will prove a competent player in due course of time.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092201770300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092201770301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VB. Jayasree
p14
ss.