(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA comparative study of ragas
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a spell-bound audience in fairly large numbers, well nigh  indicating their urge to listen to classical ragas both in pure Carnatic idiom and its equivalent in film music as well. It was more of a comparative study that was experimental in nature. No wonder S. P. Balasubrahmanyam was a special attraction representing film music and renowned Carnatic vocalist D. V. Mohanakrishna taking up the pure Carnatic section. The very concept of this programme, organised under the banner of Ragavadhini Cultural Society at Ravindra Bharathi last week, was put in words asSwara Raaga Sammohanam, Sumadhura Sastriya Cine Sangeetha Sammelanam. Both these singers also had the company of other singers like S. P. Sailaja and Vijayalakshmi for Balu and some disciples of Mohanakrishna in his rendition. The songs of Balu were those with a classical idiom.The scheme of presentation was to render a film song in a chosen raga and the Carnatic vocalist rendering a popularkirtanain that raga, explaining its modalities sometimes. Mohanakrishna took care in presenting popular Carnatic songs, mostly of Thyagaraja, so that the audience could easily follow them. The orchestra for these two artistes were separate. While Mohanakrishna had Dinakar on the violin, Bhasker on the mridangam and Nemani on the ghatam, Balu had a full-fledged filmy orchestra.Mohanakrishna opened the show with an invocation to Ganapathi,Mahaganapathimin Nata.Then Balu renderedVirinchinai Virachinchitini, a flute-based song from the filmSirivennelain the raga Suddha Dhanyasi. Mohanakrishna responded with an Annamacharyakirtana,Vinaro Bhagyamu, in the same raga after giving its scale, itsArohanaandAvarohanaand a brief sketch of the raga too besides giving a list of some popular compositions in this raga.His disciple Ratnavali also added her voice. He then renderedNanu Palimpa Nadachi Vachitivaof Thyagaraja in raga Mohana. For a change, his young disciples Ganesh and Jayaram featured for the film song. They sangLeru Kusalavula Saatifrom the filmLava-Kusa. The next raga was Hamsanadam in which Balu rendered Ilayaraja&#8217;s composition in the filmGeethanjali,Om Namaha.  Hindolam was made as the main melody of the show with Mohanakrishna resorting to extensive raga rendition and doingswaraprastaratoo in his choicekriti,Manasuloni Marmamu. There was also the traditional Tani Avartanam by the percussionists. This rendition took good time. Balu renderedSamaja Varagamanain this melody from the filmSankarabharanam. On this occasion Chittaranjan, a popular light and light classical singer, was felicitated.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/26/stories/2008122650380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.