(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFitting tribute to a maestro
p3
sVnews
p4
VJYOTI NAIR BELLIAPPACommemorating the 81st birth anniversary of Pandit C. R Vyas, doyen of the Agra and Gwalior Schools of Music, `Pancham Nishaad' from Mumbai presented an impressive array of celebrity artistes. These included Pt.Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Ustad Rais Khan and Dr. L. Subramaniam; Farhan and Ambi Subramaniam from the gharana parampara; Mandeera Manish, an excellent practitioner of Bharatnatyam and Chennai's own musical couple, Anuradha Sriram and Sriram Parasuram, well known exponents of both Hindustani and Carnatic music.RivetingMandeera, a disciple of Guru Sandhya Purecha, held up the Thanjavur style of dance. Her abhinaya, honed in the tradition of Gowri Amma, rhythmic precision and perfect delineation of the shabdam in Ragamalika, the nritta pada `Bho Shambho,' in Revathi kept the audience riveted. The popular padam, `Krishna Ni Begane,' came alive on stage and her Paras Tillana was imbued with creative energy.Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia began in Raga `Jog Kauns': a fitting tribute to the memory of Pt. Vyas with whom he had shared many concert platforms. His sitar-sarod like playing style with an alap, jod and jhala in dhrupad and thumri ang on flute approximating the human voice, found its most delightful expression in Hamsadhwani and the familiar `Vatapi Ganapathy.' This Hindustani adaptation shone with renewed colour and sparkle. In his rendition of `Des,' nature seemed to unfold itself with the verve and grace of a felt emotion. Sunil Ansad on the flute and Vijay Ghate on the tabla ably supported Panditji: their conversation seemed to meander over the slow break of dawn, the first sound of birds, the ripples of water, to finally break open the deep silence of the seas.A disciple of Guru Vyas, Sriram Parasuram began in Raga Puria Kalyan in madhya laya, followed by Rageshwari in Hindustani and a Tyagaraja composition in Ravichandrika in Carnatic. The Rageshwari rendition was special as it featured Guruji's exclusive composition on his son's wedding: `Utaro nazariya bana bani ke saath ghar aaye.' Elaborate alaps were presented by both with great precision and fluidity. The renditions were well defined, and established beautifully the musical development in the two styles. The alap, the sargam and variegated taan patterns were skilfully rendered in great unison, suggesting years of arduous work and musical creativity.Anuradha's voice touched three octaves and reflected the full range of her voice. Sriram's bolalaps, the badat and the repartee complimented her innovations with endless possibilities and conjugations Ustad Rais Khan and his son Farhan's Sitar recital bore the unmistakable stamp of the Kirana gharana.Their exploration of Charukesi reflected the meditative and emotional aspects of the raga. Returning to the concert platform after thirty years, Ustad Rais Khan's recital was steeped in the binkar-dhrupadiya tradition, natural for the star pupil of Mohammed Khan.Sense of pathosAs the raga progressed and the resonating notes elongated without sliding, as was demonstrated by Khan Sahib, the apex of the pyramid that is the `sa' in Taar saptak was not repeated but was hinted at, as though the music was being completed in the mind, creating a sense of pathos and a lingering curiosity.With sustained alapchari, complex improvisations and flowing taan patterns, Farhan added to the recital. They were accompanied by Anindo Chatterji on the Tabla.Veteran L. Subramaniam and child prodigy Ambi Subramaniam on the violin presented a rare kind of comradeship. Beginning with a kriti in praise of Lord Ganesha, they went on to build a grand edifice.Thetour de forceof the evening was the phenomenal presence and range of the young Ambi giving a marathon performance, a treat for the connoisseurs' eyes and ears.In the jugalbandi between the veterans Ustad Rais Khan and L. Subramanim, Kirwani was taken up. The aesthetic virtues of L. Subramaniam met the serenity of Ustad Rais Khan and the charming play of Farhan. In their form, design, content and treatment, the trio exhibited the finest attributes of true musical partnership.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/28/stories/2005102802640400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/28/images/2005102802640401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFATHER AND PRODIGY SON: L. Subramaniam and Ambi.  PHOTO: K. Murali Kumar.
p14
ss.