(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA sublime affair
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe solo violin concert by M. Chandrasekhar arranged by CSES last week was a sublime and grand  recital adopted to the most elevated, majestic and moving tones. It was a royal flow of harmony, at once simple, meditative and profound. Chandrasekhar has invented a playing technique that calls for the full use of all fingers, including the thumb! The various movements, a calming peace during slow movements, an imaginative exuberance and massive force while in faster actions, speak of his brilliant skill; all the time, there is consistency and culmination of tradition. In the concert, the sublime gave in to the delightful, the dignified to the graceful and the grandeur to charmed elegance; the products had logic and structure; the audience had glimpses of forgotten treasures; it was an enchanting performance.Take for instance the common raga Panthuvarali. The picture he projected and the interpretation of the landscape was something he perhaps himself has not noticed earlier. The way he enjoyed his own self is indicative of this fa&#231;ade. It was not a very long raga elaboration but what he did was phenomenal. The time measure of the associatedkrithi ninne namminanuwas something out of the ordinary; so was the raga Abheri, where he touched prayogas untouched before. The slow rendering of the song,Nagumomu, the neraval and the kalpanswaras, was a grand fete. Ravichandrika and Kadanakuthuhala (Raghuvamsasuda) are ragas specially suited to instrumental music, particularly the latter, as it has many English notes built in. The opportunity to play them was a blessed amusement for Chandrasekhar.Ananthudanuganuin jingla had technical workmanship whileNannupalimpain mohana had thematic development: in both, there was perfect harmony. The latter might have more crowded details, but every detail contributed to the theme and a power of conception. There was a kind of sophistry in which he delighted to indulge himself. In listening to the song,Melukovayya, in pouli the audience were lulled to sleep. Nannupalimpa in mohana poured out spiritual burlesque.It was the teamwork which put in tranquility. S. Balasubramanyam played support violin, M. Balaji was on the mridangam and Sethuraman on the kanjira. The percussion, in particular, was soft and soothing combined with learning. The contribution of kanjira was limited as the circumstances required it so. It was one of the grand performances in recent times.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/06/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/06/27/stories/2008062750560300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/06/27/images/2008062750560301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRight noteAn impressive performance by Chandrashekhar.
p14
ss.