(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPleasing recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARBesides Hyderabad Sisters, duet lady singers of notable merit are few in Andhra Pradesh; Vishnubhatla Sisters (Saraswathi and Krishnaveni) from Vijayawada fill up the gap to some extent. If they were only endowed with a good voice, they would be competing today with the leading artistes of the day. The most striking feature in their singing is their unruffled approach qualified with relaxation and scholarship. There is no hurry anywhere and each aspect of classicism as well as melody is treated with due respect. Perfect alignment withsruti, choice selection, equal and meritorious contribution in every featuremade the concert pleasing.In their vocal concert last week under the patronage of Kalasagaram, there was traditional design, each item falling in its place and in right sequence. The performance started with the popularvarnaminSahanaand the following item inNaatai, Jaya jaya swami, was a welcome change. This was followed byMarugelarainJayanthi Sri, which built up the needed tempo.Ritigowla ragacame under detailed analysis and the account was well shared by both. Thechittaswarain the song is of special significance. It is the normal practice to sing theswarasin theanupallaviand thesahithyain thecharana. In the present case for instance, the highlighting ofnishadain theswarasis of particular implication, in contrast to the closeraga Anandabhairavi; the sisters however did not highlight this. They sang only the lyric.Lathangiwas the next choice and the right one at that. Thekrithi, Marivere dikkevvaruwas presented with emotion. It was only in this song that the sisters indulged inneraval, a long time after starting the concert. Theswarakalpanawas attractive but was blatantly clear that they were highly rehearsed; it was also scalded. This is perhaps an in-built defect in their singing, which they should try to overcome. Makingmanodharma sangithasoundkalpithamis an odd blemish. The highlight of the concert was the piecePalinchu KamakshiinMadhyamavathi. In every feature of the itemsalapana, neravalandswarakalpana, it was great, complete and satisfying. It may however be commented that thesangathisin a couple of thekrithisare inadequate.Dwaram Sathyanarayana Rao from the famous Dwaram School accompanied on the violin and as usual, his support was not only encouraging but also contributive. Prasad on the mridangam was thrilling. Histhaniwas exhilarating.  It was a pleasant surprise to find the sisters presenting an appealing and fulfilling concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/28/stories/2005102802410400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/28/images/2005102802410401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSISTER ACT Saraswathi and Krishnaveni excel.
p14
ss.