(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAs good  a vocalist
p3
sVnews
p4
VKomanduri Krishna is a much sought-after violin accompanist in the twin cities. In his concert last week sponsored by Kalasagaram, he proved that he is an efficient vocalist as well. His father and guru Komanduri Seshadri accompanied him on the violin and Arvind was on the mridangam. Krishna finds it easy to apply his aptitude to vocals , though the singing is different from playing an instrument. His voice may not  register in full depth atadhera shadja(tonic note) but the concert was well balanced. The choice and succession of the items was in keeping with the traditionalpantha(design). In terms ofmanodharma sangeetha, Krishna has a tendency to overplay in the discipline ofswarakalpana, but inneraval, particularly in themadhyamakalam, it is archetypal. There is good balance in hisalapanaand not unnecessarily prolonged. The tendency to race up is Krishna's weakness. In short, the entire format was framed inmadhyamakala. Akritior two of Dikshithar would have added more strength and profundity.He started with the popularvarnaminAbhogiand moved toPranamamyahuminGowla.SujanajivanainKamachwas the right choice thereafter.Pantuvarali(Vadera Daivamu), the precise section next, was elaborate, but starting thealapanaatadhara shadjawas not judicious. Preferably, theragashould start fromPanchmamamto spell out the rightdaivatham. When therasikawas expectingAnandabhairavinext,Ritigowla(Janani ninnuvina) almost similar in scale was introduced.Saveri raga alapanawas not in balance with the shortkriti,Enthanerchina. All in all, the concert was in good shape although the original and creative features of Krishna's singing were limited. Seshadri's contribution and support was commendable even though his style of playing is in short and swift phrases.  The best part of the programme was the excellentthaniby Arvind on the mridangam. The 20-minute performance in a two-hour concert may sound overindulgence but every moment and every movement was exhilarating. What is even more important is his sobriety during the vocalist's presentation.B.R.C. IYENGARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/04/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/04/29/stories/2005042901300300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.