(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDuo's delightful treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VIf it is Hyderabad Brothers' concert you are in for a dual treat; aural - when the duo sing; and visual - watching the younger of the two, D. Seshachari, effervescent on stage. Give him a cricket ball and you are in for doosraahs, leg spinners and off spinners, every time he negotiates a phrase turning his hands and fingers. His gesticulations also remind you of MGR in song sequences. One-liners from him to his accompanists keep the stage lively. Past Monday evening it was no different.Can you call it the concert of the season or is it too early to conclude so? This will go down in the memory of avid rasikas as one the best concerts which they may reminisce about several years later. After Sri Raga varnam (&#8216;Sami Ninne Kori,' Karur Devudu Iyer) and Tyagaraja's &#8216;Nannukanna Talli' (Sindhu Kannada), Seshachari took up Dhanyasi. Its classical beauty was incredible. The Brothers, over the period, have mellowed down since their first appearance in the concert scene in Chennai in the 1980s.Crisp kalpanaswarasThe high octane approach then has given way to a sculptor's patience now. The unusual phrases within classical parameters kept the audience spell bound. The passionate player in Nagai Sriram dressed up the raga further enhancing its beauty.&#8216;Meenalochanana Brova' (Misra chapu-Syama Sastri) was interpreted with some innovative variations for the line &#8216;Neerada Veni.' The kalpanaswaras that followed were crisp and raga oriented. Srimushnam Raja Rao (mridangam) revelled with his rhythmic artistry in this segment. His anticipations were only too perfect like the dart hitting the bull's eye. The elder one D. Raghavachari's voice is softer than that of his sibling which is demonstrative. This poles-apart combination is a charming beauty during kriti phase.Seshachari next took up Shanmukhapriya. It was chiselled with long sancharas and brilliant but short brighas. Never did he twitch his facial muscle while negotiating tara sthayi upto daivatham. The influence of Nagaswaram music was very evident.Sriram in his reply ferreted for newer vistas in the raga successfully. In &#8216;Mariveredikkevvarayya' (Adi-Patnam Subramania Iyer) the niraval in &#8216;Sannuthanga' and the swaras were vibrant. Raja Rao and E.M. Subramaniam (ghatam) combined well to add the necessary pep for this segment.A delightful treat of Khambodi by Seshachari with all its magnificence was the toast of the evening. The akhaaram, ukaaram, makaaram and sometimes rukaaram were judiciously used for painting a canvas of Khambodi with multi-hued richness. Sriram proved a good foil. After a brief tanam, a pallavi in tisra jati tirupudai talam (rettai kilai) was presented. The ragamalika comprising Khamas, Kedaragowla, Bilahari and Yadukulakhambodi - all ragas close to Khambodi - were deliberately chosen towards the end of the pallavi after swaraprastara in Khambodi. The duo&#8216;s erudition in pure music was proved when they gave clear demarcation for each of the above ragas.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/17/stories/2010121751080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/17/images/2010121751080201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLively: The Hyderabad Brothers.
p14
ss.