(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious musical programmes
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. SURYA RAOP. SURYA RAOThe annual Ramakoti Mahotsavam celebrated at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram, a famous temple  in Vijayawada, has always been a great event for the  devotees, rasikas of music, spiritual discourses and Harikatha Kalakshepams. In this year's Mahotsavam one of the highlights was the musical feature titled Dorakuna Ituvanti Seva, a group singing event of Thyagaraja's Utsava Sampradaya keertanas and Divyanama keertanas. The richness of the programme increased manifold by the superb compeering of well-known scholar, Sri Mulukutla Bramhananda Sastri who made a special and extensive study of Thyagaraja and his works.The singing group prepared and led by Modumudi Sudhakar, a staffer of Vijayawada Akashvani and a well known vocalvidwan, rendered the keertanasRama Kodanda Rama(Bhairavi),Varaleela Gana Lola(Sankarabharanam),Nagumomu Gala Vani(Madhyamavathi),Vadanaduti(Pantuvarali),Uyyalaloogavayya(Neelambari),Jojo Rama(Reetigowla),Srirama Jaya Rama(yadukula kambhoji) and several otherkeertanas.Good coordinationThere was excellent coordination between the singers Sudhakar, Anjana Sudhakar and Sishla Bharathi. The programme received  great devotional appeal. Instrumental support was given well by Palaparthi Nageswara Rao on the violin and M.Vijayakumar on the mridangam.The 171st Jayanthi of Ramakrishna Paramahamsa was observed fittingly by the Ramakrishna Mission of Vijayawada at the Samithi's own premises.After an enlightening speech by Swamy Sasikantanandji, there was a fine vocal concert by Popuri Gowrinath a vibrant voiced vocal artiste. Gowrinath rendered popular keertanas likeMokshamugaladain Saramathi,Sangeetagnanamuin Dhanyasi,Santamu Leka Sowkhyamu Leduin Sama andNee Bhakthi Bhagya Sudhain Jayamanohari with brief raaga versions and kalpanaswarasfor some.  Support on violin and mridangam came from G.Satish and N.S.Kalyanaraman respectively. Particularly appealing were thebhajanssung by Gowrinath towards the close of the concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/10/stories/2006031002090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/10/images/2006031002090201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDEVOUT CHANT A group of women render Tyagaraja keertanas.
p14
ss.