(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTalent tuned to the audience
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARA vocal concert of Sanjay Subramaniam was organised by `Savitri Foundation' at hotel Green Park last week and the Chief Guest was Dr. C. Rangarajan, the former Governor of Andhra Pradesh. Varadarajan accompanied Sanjay on the violin and Arun Prakash on the mridangam. The Trust has been promoting the cause of Carnatic music in various ways one of which is to invite leading artistes in the field of music; thanks to the philanthropic stance of its Chief, J. Balsubramaniam.Sanjay is irrefutably the leading vocalist in Carnatic music today and has occupied the centre stage for a couple of years now. The simple explanation is his work never fails to move and inspire, excite and brace up. There is in him, occasionally, an invention so sharp that it almost stings and a reckless profusion of energy suitably to be called, genius. His music moves the heart, excites the nerves, also it arrests and engages the most acute intelligence. Constant self-mastery is the sign of a hero; Sanjay always reaches beyond his grasp. His  marvellous technique is usually strained to the limits, sometimes the string tension positively aches! After all, we are the losers if we miss the good things given to us by him! There are no difficulties about listening to Sanjay; he asks only some insight and a great amount of patience.Different contextHowever, it was different Sanjay at the concert under review. In this context, his judgment needs admiration. He was quick to assess that the situation was different, the audience diverse and the connoisseurs wanting to choose more of amusement rather than solemn substance. The concert was intelligently based on a lighter format with little or no sensationalism, most of it running  through the mill and ending on a formal procedure. All in all, instead of a cocktail, he offered pure cold water! Yet, it was a concoction material, oddly low in inventiveness, but for a few short flashes of breathtaking ingenuity, pouring out inadvertently, more as an inherent aptitude rather than purposely designed. The recipe was a mixed fair of both orthodox and the nonconformist neither of them dominating nor understated. The cadence was immediately built up with theata thala varnamin theraga, Kaanada. A shortalapanaofMalayamaruthaled to the popular song,Mansa etulorthuneand a shower ofswarasinswarakalpanawith countless and attractive combinations put the audience at peace. In truth, the highlight of the entire concert was the fluidity and eloquence with which Sanjay played hisswarakalpanain several other items too. The choice ofMadhyamakalafor a couple of these songs was clever thinking.SeethapatiinKamach, was vibrant. The concert did include some weighty and slow-moving items as inKalavathi(a composition of Thyagaraja),Keeravani(a song of Bharathiar) andsahana(a composition of Vedanayakam Pillai) all significant with classicism.Lighter itemsRealising the need for populist aspiration, a couple of lighter items in Tamil interspersed with lyric in the form ofslokas, were also tailored. However, distanced from Sanjay's usual classic performances, the concert under review was yet a different dish enjoyable for a change and relished in limitation.Young Varadarajan on the violin is known for the pure notes he produces. Every note he generates has at once a harmonic and melodic functional connotation.The rapport between him and Sanjay had an emotive significance. Add to this the excellent and vivacious playing by Arun Prakash on the mridangam, where every sound had a lilting swing and divine dance. The teamwork had an awe-inspiring sway over the audience.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080401900300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080401900301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODIOUS MOOD Sanjay Subramaniam in concert.
p14
ss.