(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFinding remedy in melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VGAUTAM CHATTERJEEAfter the blast, this was the first music festival in Varanasi and was expected to wipe out the feeling of its tragedy. And the five nights of music did the work in the very premises of Sri Sankatmochan temple. Pandit Jasraj, Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, Pandit Birju Maharaj, Pandit Ronu Mazumdar, Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, Pandit Rajan-Sajan Mishra and others were there to remove the sense of abnormal violence.Sri Sankatmochan Sangit Samaroh  has been continuing for almost six decades. This music event started before independence with Pandit Amarnath Mishra, Pandit Ashutosh Bhattacharya and Pandit Kishan Maharaj.UnthinkableOne cannot think of a terrorist attack  at such a place, where even common people are used to experiencing the presence of great artistes like guru Kelucharan Mohapatra, Pandit Kumar Gandharva, Pandit Samta Prasad Mishra, Sanjukta Panigrahi and Sunanda Patnaik. But it happened, so this year, the  Samaroh became attracted more attention.Creatively,  the festival  belonged to Birju Maharaj, Ronu Mazumdar and Ulhas Kashalkar. The audience  will remember their  performances. Pandit Ulhas  of the Gwalior gharana was here  last year with Malkauns here and this year he  came with ragas Ramkali, Alhaiya Bilawal, Lalit Pancham and Bhairavi.Whereas Kashalkar established his full musical grace with these four classical ragas, Pandit Jasraj (who also took up Ramkali) and Chhannulal Mishra (who chose Hamsadhwani) regaled more with the bhajan mood than with Khayal.Ramkali belongs to Bhairav thaat and is usually sung in the  morning, but Kashalkar enunciated it at 3 a.m. The ragas he presented next were more colourful and rendered in depth.  Such was the presentation of Ulhas Kashalkar, it was reminiscent of the unforgettable Alhaiya Bilawal sung by Gana Saraswati Kishori Amonkar. The vakra use of Komal Nishad in the descent  was intelligently beautiful, whereas thepukarandsargamof his Gwalior style were outstanding. He is the one currently infusing life into this gharana and maintaining its musical uniqueness.Birju Maharaj's was a commanding presence on stage and along with his daughter Mamta,  had the audience in thrall. Kumar Bose accompanied them brilliantly on the tabla, accompanied him brilliantly.Ronu Mazumdar's magnificent flute recital was the next splendid event of the festival.  He presented a new raga, Mangal Bhairav, or raga Durga with Komal Rishabh.  This note became vital to the structure of the raga.  Steering clear of Gandhar and Nishad,  Ronu, who recently received the Pandit Kumar Gandharva Award, performed marvels, proving that he is now the only flautist in his genre, like Ulhas Kashalkar among vocalists.Like other years, the organisers could not draw up a list of participants where every name matched the calibre required for this prestigious festival.   Some of the performers included were not quite up to the mark, like Romi Chakraborty and Sushila Mehata.  On the other hand, some  young artistes drew attention, like  Ratikant-Sujata Mahapatra (Odissi), Abhay Rustum Sopori (santoor), Chandrima Rai (sarod), Raghupati Hegde (vocal) and Kalpana Jokarkar (vocal).New ragaAbhay, the bright son of Bhajan Sopori, presented a new raga, Kaushik Ranjani (composed by his father), with fine tabla accompaniment  by Vinod Lele. Abhay's music touched the audience.  He also sang with the floating notes of Kirwani minus the Pancham  to  embellish this Kaushik Ranjani.  The Samaroh  included some  great though lesser known artistes,  like Pandit Ramashraya Jha and others. Gaurav Mazumdar (sitar) registered well the notes of raga Jog in the hearts of thousand listeners, as did Vishwajit Roychowdhury with his sarod.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042801120300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042801120303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPandit Birju Maharaj were some of the stalwarts at the Sankatmochan Sangit Samaroh held in Varanasi recently.
p14
ss.