(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVeena virtuoso
p3
sVnews
p4
VMaha Mahopadhyaya and Padma Shri Emani Sankara Sastry was a veena legend of Andhra who elevated the musical instrument to the highest plane. Kalyani, his daughter, presently working as staff artiste of AIR (A-grade artiste), has inherited the skills of her father. Those who were exposed to the Sankara Sastry's veena will recall his style of play as they watch this young lady performing on the instrument. In her father's time Kalyani would sometimes accompany him on second veena. Her technique of play resembles that of her father, especially in the way he used to play on the mandra strings and in playing a set of swaras with just a single pluck of the string.All these traits were put on view in her concert she gave for the literary and cultural organisation Upasana at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha on Sunday to a packed house of connoisseurs and music lovers. Kalyani minimised her repertoire to some Thyagaraja numbers owing to lack of time, much of which was taken away by the speakers in the earlier held Sahitya Sabha and a felicitation function to honour Kalyani. She opened with a composition of her father Sankara Sastry, Neerajaakshi Neemuddu Momu in the rare raga Neetimati, with raga and swara briefs.The popular Abheri number Nagumomu figured next. And in the most moving line Jagamele Paramatma, her play attained pristine levels of beauty and mood. The swarakalpana that followed was quite a sweeping presentation, with mridangam player Jayabhasker aptly supporting her.Batureeti Koluveeyavayya in Hamsanadam was neat. It simply stuck to the bhava of the kriti. Brochevarevarura of Mysore Vasudevachar in Khamas preceded by a brief raga was quite moving. The swarakalpana was compact. The major melody of her concert was her namesake Kalyani for Etavunara, another popular composition of Thyagaraja.She displayed many of her skills in giving it majestic appeal. She took good time in building the phrases into a thri-sthayi structure and then went for a tanam laced with gamakasThe mridangam and ghatam tani by Jayabhaskar and Janardan respectively was in stride with the concert quality. Her concert ended with a couple of light classical numbers and a Mantra Pushpam that her father used to close his concerts with.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/05/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/05/07/stories/2010050750610300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/05/07/images/2010050750610301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.