(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic for eternity
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHIn some events, actions speak louder than words (read `publicity'). Calm and quiet without much fanfare, but at the same time accomplishing the objectives. The Trinity Music Concerts-2006, spread over three days and organised by All India Radio this past weekend, was one such event. Top artistes performed in memory of the Trinity of Carnatic music, namely Muthuswami Dikshitar, Thyagaraja and Shyama Sastri. Each day was dedicated to one of the Trinity, with two concerts centred on each.O. S. Thiyagarajan, who took up Dikshitar's compositions, began his concert with "Vallabha nayaka", in the raga Begada, which was marked with crisp swaraprastara. "Prasanna Venkateswaram" in the raga Vasanta Bhairavi, which followed, was marked with a brief but emotive alap. Similarly, "Nilakantham bhajeham" in the raga Kedara Gowla also underwent fine treatment, including the alap.While presenting the main song, "Meenakshi", in the raga Poorvikalyani, Thiyagarajan brought the raga bhava as well as the sahitya bhava to the fore. Earlier, he presented an excellent alap of this raga. Niraval for the phrase, "Mathurapuri nilaye mani valaya" and the swaraprastara that followed were also handled excellently. T.V. Ramanuja Charulu provided excellent support on the violin. Karaikudi Mani's mridangam added grace and enhanced the overall outcome of the concert. V. Suresh on the ghatam also provided excellent support. On the whole, this was a concert that would linger for a long time in the memories of rasikas. In another concert, the youngster Sikkil C. Gurcharan, who took up Tyagaraja's compositions, put up an impressive performance, displaying considerable maturity in presenting the kritis and his manodharma abilities. His presentation of "Dasarathee" in the raga Todi, which was marked with a fine alap of the raga, rich sahitya contents and creative handling of the niraval and swaraprastara, bore testimony to this.The Chinmaya sisters, Uma and Radhika, whose concert was dedicated to Shyama Sastri, began impressively with "O Jagadamba" in the raga Ananda Bhairavi. "Nannu brova Lalite" in the raga Lalita was handled well. Though the alap, presented by the elder sister Uma, was brief, her expression was good. Their presentation of the composition "Mayamma" in Ahiri was emotive. "Himaadri sute" in the raga Kalyani was also handled well, though the presentation of the alap was a joint exercise with both the sisters delineating in turns. The sisters' main presentation, "Ninne nammi" in the raga Todi, was marked with a fine alap by the elder sister Uma. Niraval for the phrase "Kamakshi kancha dalayatakshi" and swaraprastara they handled, were rich in creativity. Hemalatha on the violin, P. Suresh on the mridangam, Papanasam S. Sethuraman on the kanjira and H. Sivaramakrishnan on the ghatam provided understanding support throughout. While Hemalatha's delineation of the ragas Kalyani and Todi had considerable expression, the tani avartanam of the trio was good.Other artistes who performed in this festival were Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan, M.S. Sheela and Anuradha Krishnamurthy. Rasikas who could not attend can watch out for these concerts being broadcast by AIR in the National Programme of music in the coming months. This is the fourth year in a row that AIR has been celebrating this festival.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033101620300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033101620301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VON SONG O.S.THIAGARAJAN
p14
ss.