(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSoaked in classicism
p3
sVnews
p4
VSuguna Varadhachari's concert at Nani Palkhiwala Auditorium, Coimbatore, under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts, was soaked in classicism. The veteran vocalist nd teacher-par-excellence made a lasting impression on the audience with her unflinching adherence to tradition.The care she took to check the mike system to make sure everything was okay, spoke volumes of her respect for music and concern for the rasikas. She began with the impressive varnam, `Jalajaaksha' (Hamsadhwani- Manambucchavadi Venkatasubbaiyer). `Intha Paraakaa' by Anai-Ayya was presented in Mayamalavagowla with a lively niraval for the line, `Kanna Talli Tanri'. (This composition is usually sung in Nadanamakriya. Suguna Varadhachari presented it in Mayamalava gowla.)Tyagaraja's `Nee Daya Che Ramaa' in Yadhukulakhambodi (in which Tyagaraja expresses his gratitude to Rama saying that he owes all his bliss to Sri Rama's mercy), was very sober in keeping with the theme of the song.She sculpted Purvikalyani like an ace sculptor with only the necessary, but sure strokes, presenting the raga in its perfect beauty. Akkarai Subbulakshmi's violin seemed to be inspired that day. One can understand the greatness of the vocalist with her vidwat and her experience in the field.Subbulakshmi followed her closely and exhibited a brilliance that was wholeheartedly appreciated by the audience, with the vocalist nodding in approval of her violin play. It was the same during the swarakalpanas and the alapanas Thodi and Khambodi.The ragas Suguna Varadhachari selected were not rare, but the compositions were. After the Purvikalyani alapana, while one guessed if the song would be `Meenakshi Me Mudham' or `Ananda Nadamaduvar,' she began `Gangadhara Tripurahara' by Mysore Sadashiva Rao that came as a pleasant surprise. `Ninne Namminanu Sada' by Shyama Sastri was the centre piece and could not have been sung better.The niraval for the line, `Kaamaakshi, Kanjadalayadhakshi' was pleasing. The ragam tanam pallavi in Khambodi, set to misra triputa talam, was presented as a tribute to her guru Musiri Subramaniya Iyer, with the pallavi, `Thiruvadi Sharanam Endru Naan Nambi Vandhen, O Rangasayee', combining the first lines of the two most famous kritis sung by him. While singing the pallavi in ragamalika, the vocalist beautifully replaced `O Rangasayee' with `Muruga, Muruga' for Saveri, `Mohana Rama' for Mohanam and `Balagopala' for Bhairavi. She concluded her dignified performance with Arunachalakavi's `Kaana Vendum Laksham Kangal' and the tillana in Hamsanandi by Srimushnam Raja Rao. J.Vaidhyanathan's mridangam was supportive. Though he can be flamboyant whenever a need arises, he played with control and understanding. Soaked in classicism
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/01/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/01/11/stories/2008011150930300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.