(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOf diligence and perseverance
p3
sVnews
p4
VLast week, Kalasagaram got up a vocal concert of the young artiste, Aiswarya Raghavan. Dinakar accompanied her on the violin and Kalanidhi Ramabhadran played mridangam. It was a pleasant surprise to find Aiswarya on the path of slow diligence and ste\u000aady perseverance. Immaculatesruti gnanam, rigid adherence tolaya, consistentkaalapramanammarked the concert. Her voice is good although lacks depth atmandra sthayi. As is al\u000aways the case, with contemporary artistes,raga alapana, neravalandswarakalpanasound routine and deficient in creativity; all need clearness. Also needless stay at restingswarastoo frequently \u000aand too long a time takes away the thrill. It is however a relief that the artiste does not indulge in epidemical conspiracy of highly rehearsed calculations inswarakalpana.The selection of the items was well thought out but the sequence was misapprehend. Thevarnamin Nalinakanti was uncommon.Deva devain Mayamalavagowla took its routine path but theswarakalpanawas artistic in the sense, there were no lengthy and mind-boggling exercises.Manasuloni Marmamuwas rather faster than the conventional. It was in Ananda Bhairavi, Thyagarajayoga vaibhavam that the artiste&#8217;s command overlayawas evident. Thekrithiby itself is a musical masterpiece in aspects of grammar, which includesalankaraslikegopuchha, srothovahaetc; Aiswarya brought out the inbuilt extravag\u000aanza of the song. The major item wasAkhyaloingavibhoin Shankarabharana. The presentation of the item in all aspects was commendable but yet lack of experience was evident on several occasions. The best part of the concert was the mri\u000adangam accompaniment by veteran Ramabhadran. Aiswarya was lucky in having him as the percussion accompanist. The uniqueness of Ramabhadran&#8217;s playing is the unfussiness associated with scholarship. His deft fingers seldom move beyond an inch from the face of the instrument and thethirmanmsare uncomplicated not extending beyond one or twoavarthams; a great master indeed!
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/08/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/08/03/stories/2007080350750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.