(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSedate, ripe and moving
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANAlavaiyur R. Ketheeswaran and Idumbavanam Ilayaraja were in excellent form in their programme for the Nadaswara-thavil festival 2007.After a sedate `Endhuku Peddhala' in Sankarabharanam, `Endharo Mahanubhavulu' (Sri) came as a reverential offering, setting the mood for a bhava-laced rendition of Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Akhilandeswari' (Dwijavanthi) in which sangatis were heavy with the ripeness of internalised swaroopa.The piece that drew and held attention was an elaborate treatise of Rishabhapriya (mela 62) with a wealth of details woven into the madhya stayi sancharas. Tyagaraja's `Mahima Dhakkinchi' supported a fretwork of free-flowing sarvalaghu swaras with kuraippu.A rousing rendition of Swati Tirunal's tillana in Dhanasree and a Tiruppugazh abounding with moving phrases (Sindhubhairavi) gilded the lily. Yazhpanam Ravindran and Yazhpanam Sivaram drummed up an electrifying special thavil thani.The recital of Tirupati V. Sathyanarayana and party got off to a lively start with an introductory speech by the star performer of the evening who was none other than Valayapatti A.R.Subramaniam.The artiste was in his elements as he sought to put an audience in awe of his star status at ease with anecdotes and reminiscences, chuckling and dispensing jokes at his affable best. It worked like a charm.An air of bonhomie prevailed and the audience was at its receptive best, as he complimented the organisers for having put together a unique festival.Unusual line-upAn unusual line-up of kritis was in the offing as well. Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Gananayakam' (Rudrapiya) was a benign contrast to the stark vivadhi raga appeal of Tyagaraja's `Pariyachakama.' An unhurried `Diname Sudhinamu' (Lathangi) came next.Traditional graces and measured gamakas etched a Hindolam free of Hindusthani flavour and light touches, the essay complemented by the slow, dignified gait of Annamacharya's `Deva Devam.'The main raga, Kiravani was elaborated chiefly in the upper octave, dwelling on sancharas radiating from the tara stayi rishabha, an apt delineation which echoed the structure of the Papanasam Sivan kriti `Devi Neeye Thunai.'The imperious roll of Valayapatti's thavil was the clarion call that summoned those thirsty souls who had stepped outside for a tea break.Along with Tirupati V. Subbukrishnaiyya, the maestro embarked on a marathon thani avartanam that called for a willing suspension of disbelief &#151;  such was the incredible variety of sollus that emerged in power-packed strokes.It made their day for the young Turks of percussion who had turned up en masse, following nadais with fierce concentration and admiring exclamations, fingers flying as they kept pace with the beat.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/30/stories/2007033002170500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/30/images/2007033002170502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTirupati V.Sathyanarayana and V. Subbukrishnaiyya. Valayapatti A.R.Subramaniam is at extreme right.
p14
ss.