(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSongs of the season
p3
sVnews
p4
VThere's nothing like a full-blown choir to usher in the Christmas spirit. And with Christmas less than two weeks away, Hyderabad's Festival Choristers seemed more than ready to spread some joy and good cheer.Singing as a part of the programme of the ongoing Hyderabad Literary Festival, co-organised by Goethe-Zentrum, OUCIP, Muse India, Sahitya Akademy and the U.S. Consulate, the choir stepped forward to sing some of the best-loved and lesser-known songs of the season at Ravindra Bharati last week. The hall was full to bursting: people milled near the door and settled down on the steps, just to be a part of the music. The night slid into a harmonious beginning with the junior choir performing two numbers. The group solemnly shuffled, slipping into the charming German carol Still, Still, Still, followed by the apt A Tiny Child Will Come. Even before the audience had time to burst into loud applause, the group trooped offstage and the curtains rose to reveal the swelling throng that was the Festival Choristers.Dressed in alternate reds and greens, with the men in white forming a row at the very top, the Choristers were an imposing group, assembled as they were with the orchestra in front and Joe Koster conducting. The evening began with the uplifting Shout The News, their voices rising in a soul-stirring, declarative call of elation. The choir then intelligently kept the momentum going by performing a number of old favourites in quick succession: Joy to the World, Gloria in Excelsis Deo with its clarion call of adoration, Silent Night and Oh Holy Night.The group chose to sing a wide range of songs appropriate to the sound and swing of Christmas. The slow and poignant Gabriel from God contrasted with the lilting and inspirational Come to Us, O Promised One. The song Can you hear the Christmas Bells was particularly stimulating &#8212; it had a jaunty Middle Eastern flair reminiscent of camels and caravans, with a sprightly piano accompaniment. Calypso Gloria, on the other hand, had a Caribbean feel reminiscent of Harry Belafonte, with a guitar making an appearance.The songs flowed thick and fast, the music spiralling from the emotional to the pinnacle of rapture and joy. The myriad voices blended together in sonorous harmony, from alto to soprano to tenor to bass. The ensemble of violins, cello and piano provided the perfect background for the lilting voices, especially in the medley of three songs, combining His Name is Life, Cornerstone and the majestic In the Name of the Lord. It might not be Christmas yet, but the spirit is already here to stay.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/17/stories/2010121750350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/17/images/2010121750350301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VColour of Christmas Festival Choristers performing as a run up to Christmas.
p14
ss.