(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA pleasing concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe vocal concert of Sriram, arranged by Kalasagaram last week, clearly demonstrated that good music could still be found in amateur rather than professionals artistes. They don't cater to mass appeal and, therefore, chastity and purity remains untainted.  Sriram, who hails from a family of musicians seems to have   accomplished  this art. Sriram has a frail voice and lacks depth. He also seems to struggle while singing in the higher octaves. It is not too late for him to practice some voice culture. However, like any contemporary musicians he too indulges in fast movingalapana(dritha kala sancharas) that lacks clarity and the effort proves fruitless. He was accompanied by Sachidanandam on the violin and Ramachandran on the mridangam. His strong point, evidently, is his mastery overswarakalapanawhere the combination ofswaras, the attractivejathisand imaginativekoruvaisflow effortlessly and everything falls in its place. Thus, he provides excellent opportunity for the accompanying percussion artistes to addrakthi(splendour) to the concert. His sense ofsrutiandlayaare exceptionally good and he sings with total dedication.The selection of the items for the concert was carefully planned and the sequence was attractive in providing pleasing contrast from raga to raga.Kaanada ata thala varnamwas followed by Ra rama intidakainAsaveri.VallabhanayakasyainBegadahad a good set ofswarakalapana,the followingkrithiinAnandabhairaviandmarivereof Shyamasatri carried the desiredbhava. His choice of theragasucharithraas the next item called for scholarly temperament. Themelaandsucharithraraga has significantvivaadi doshaand it is difficult to generate melody in them, be it inalapanaorswarakalapana.  Thekrithiin theragawas one ofkotiswaraiyer-velum mayilume.ManasulonimarmamuinHindolawas attractive for the exercises involved inswarakalpana.The elaboration of theraga Brindavanasarangawas impressive and thekrithiofDakshitharwas arresting. The  was in theraga Bhairaviset tokhanda jathi triputa thala.The entire exercise was just average, although thethanampart of it was distinctive.One feature palpably lacking was the exclusion of one of the most essential components of a concert -neravalin the songs. Not a single item carried it and this speaks of inadvertence. Care should always be exercised not to be unresponsive to this.Sachidanandam, a well-experienced violinist, added melody and enhanced the status of the concert while Ramachandran was soft on his instrument. However, he should learn the art of choosing different patterns for different features of akrithilikepallavi,anupallaviandcharanafailing which a monotony of sorts sets in. All in all, the three-hour concert was engaging and attractive.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/09/stories/2006060901200300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/09/images/2006060901200301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSriram
p14
ss.