(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhen the nagaswaram wove magic
p3
sVnews
p4
VS. SivakumarWITH ABSOLUTE CLARITY: M. K. S. Siva and Kalahasti Durga Prasad supported by Veliyambakkam Palanivel (extreme left) and Haridwaramangalam Palanivel on the tavil.The music festival seemed to extend with the organisation of a Nagaswaram Festival by Krishna Gana Sabha. The nagaswaram occupies a prime position in the minds of many musicians and has served to enlarge their vision of music.Semmangudi has mentioned that the raga in Carnatic music developed only because of this wind instrument. If GNB became a paradigmatic figure, he would owe it considerably to the nagaswaram. History also has it that Madurai Mani Iyer attributed his `sruti-sudhham' rendering to his being one with the nagaswaram.For the nagaswaram and tavil vidwans, it is a coming together of their life, their breath and their art, as they perform. They stretch themselves fully and in no small measure to play their instruments.Blissful momentsSeshampatti Sivalingam's performance (nagaswaram support from Selvam) had many moments worth capturing and the two sangatis for the line, "Animaadhi Siddhi Dhaayakam" ("Gana Nayagam Bhaje" Rudhrapriya-Dikshitar) deserve special mention. The Panthuvarali alapana ("Raghuvara" - Tyagaraja) had lovely sweet phrases and "Vasudevayani" (Kalyani - Tyagaraja), certain blissful moments but it was Hindolam ("Maamavathusree" Dikshitar) that really had glides and brigas of quality and grace. He also presented a lilting Narayana Tirtha tarangam, "Narayanaya Namo" in  Madhyamavati.Act of boldnessMambalam Siva presented a concert and was supported by Kalahasti Durga Prasad on the nagaswaram. It was an act of boldness that in the ragamalika he played Ranjani adjacent to Madhuvanti and this speaks volumes of the level of musical clarity in the mind of the artiste.His Nilambari ("Mamava Madhava" - Narayana Tirtha) had those charming sangatis that are most appropriate for this raga. His Bhairavi raga alapana ("Balagopala"-Dikshitar) was as elaborate and detailed as it could be with long karvais and stunning phrases with a wide range of variety and usage.Injikkudi Subramaniam's forte is his as yet unequalled ability to convert the self-same nagaswaram to a shehnai and he played the bhajan like any classical shehnai expert would. Carnatic purity was at its best when he played Kiravani ("Kaligiuntegadha" - Tyagaraja) and during his raga elaboration of "Nasikabhushani" ("MaaraVairi Ramani" -Tyagaraja). T. G. Kalidas provided nagaswaram support.Kasim and Babu chose to present two rare kritis in Chakravaham (Dakshinamurti -Lalitha Daasar) and Useni ("Sri Raghu Kula Nidhim" -Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar), which reflected their diligence and commitment. The Useni alapana was rendered with no overlaps on other ragas. Their raga alapana for Kambodhi ("Sri Raghuvara" -Tyagaraja) had fine elements and there was an all-pervasive "spray of rose water."The brothers were seen to be on an equal footing with Babu playing with certain controlled blowing methods and Kasim choosing to play in a more forthright manner.There were, however, certain moments when trying to stay together at a single note perfect sruti alignment was found wanting.Sheikh Mahboob Subhani and Kalisha Bibi performed to show that they were to be reckoned with the rest of the performing artistes in stature. In the raga alapanas of Ananda Bhairavi ("Marivere"-Syama Shastri) and Kapi ("Intha Sowkhya"-Tyagaraja) they showed a clear understanding about the raga's landmark phrases and brought into play their imaginative skills plentifully to present the kriti and raga to heighten the experience of raganubhava. They also rendered an unheard of Annamayya kriti in Senjuruti ("Ra Ra Chinnanna"), which had a pleasing folk orientation.Pulsating tavilThere were pulsating performances from each one of the accompanying tavil vidwans who had styles and patterns that were distinguishable and distinctive. Haridwaramangalam Palanivel and Veliyambakkam Palanivel (for Mambalam Siva) began with purely arithmetic  wonders and incorporated mridangam sollus while playing the tani.There was an authoritative distribution of the patterns with the juxtaposing of gaps and sollus. The special rubbing sound (nerudal) that was produced and the western drum like reverberation was well executed and well received by the audience.One was able to see their grit when they preferred to play `thaka kita thaka dhina' instead of the `thaka kita thaka dhin.' (The former doesn't provide for a gap.) Thanjavur Govindarajan and Sembanarkoil S. M. Babu (for Injikkudi Subramaniam) gave a kuraipu which had a chathusram and tisra gathi combination and also produced a special korvai and exhibited keen alertness and produced frills with alacrity and clarity.Mannargudi M. R. Vasudevan, Udumalaipettai M. Angusamy and Tiruchi S. Sentilvelan (for Kasim and Babu) were the threesome tavil combination and they uttered the korvai in double speed. They also came out with complicated sol kattus with nonchalance and were able to work out modulation methods with a stamp of individuality.Kongambattu Murugayyan and Vellore Venkatesan (for Seshampatti) appeared to play with an element of strain. However, they played the chathusram in tisra gathi which calls for laya gnanam and confidence.Vedaranyam Balasubramaniam and Thiruvanaikovil Muthukumar (for Sheikh Mahboob Subhani and Kalisha Bibi) on this day stressed the need to provide necessary gaps as fillers and in fact started with a korvai and finished their avartanam with a tisra gathi kuraippu.* * *SidelightsThe left side stick sound (kutchi side) in several cases was with a sense of disproportion which at times had the countervailing effect of suppressing the original beauty of the other emanating sounds. (The amplification by the mike may have been a factor here.)How desirable it is to branch of intentionally to other ragas from a regular kirtana set in an established raga is as debatable as the possibility of making an attempt to present a mike-less nadhaswaram concert for sheer fulfilment of hearing the original nadham of the nadhaswaram and the tavil.The `sound-men,' had done a professional job. There were no hiccups or any of those distorting booming noises to cast-off the artistes and the sound mixing was also handled deftly and with mature taste.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012002910800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.