(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMaturity of the seasoned
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANKalpalathika has a strong, pliant voice and oodles of determination, both of which were evident when she gave the recital her best shot even though she was inconvenienced by a cold. She made a spirited effort to do justice to her choice of items, gamely traversing the upper and lower octaves to touch difficult-to-reach areas.The graceful planes and glides of Lalgudi G. Jayaraman's varnam in Nalinakanthi gave the right impetus to a promising start. A composition in Gambhiranattai with its joyous rhythms danced its way into the listener's attention.`Nekkurugi' in Abhogi was sung with azhutham and a feel for nuances. The surprise package was Tyagaraja's rarely-heard 'Sadamadhindalathu' in Gambhiravani that served as a racy filler.The young vocalist's main alapana in Simhendramadhyamam was structured with diligence and strengthened by rounded full gamakas and a judicious mix of karvais and fast passages. The niraval-swara interlude was brought to an effective conclusion with a neat korvai. The light section featured a mellifluously rendered 'Kannan idam eduthu solladi' and a Tiruppugazh.If the artiste could keep a watchful eye on the accuracy of the take-off and landing points of prayogas and aim for greater bhava in rendition, these aspects would greatly enhance her presentation.Devanathan on the violin and S.C.Venkatesh on the mridangam displayed a good understanding of the vocalist's bent and performed enthusiastically as a team.Comfortable paceYoung Brinda Manickavachagam interprets raga with a maturity far beyond her years. Her voice carries a serious, mature tenor, with no lingering traces of a child-like tone. Her rendition of `Saraswathi Namosthuthe' in Saraswathi was replete with jarus and kuzhaivus that captured the raga's flavour. There was cogency and a logical progression of ideas in her development of the Charukesi alapana that facilitated easy flow of ideas. The artiste was in no hurry, proceeding at a comfortable pace. The combination of jarus, apt gamakas and janta permutations in phrasing lent depth to the exposition. Tyagaraja's `Aadamodi' with niraval and kalapanaswaras at `Chadhuvullanni,' displayed an appreciable understanding of raga swaroopa especially in the sarvalaghu swaras in two speeds.Sustained focus on achieving greater spashtam in enunciating sahitya and a better reach in the mandara sthayi while avoiding thinning of tone in the tara sthayi would be points worth paying attention to, although the artiste may not have found her voice to be at its most cooperative, as she appeared to be fighting the ill-effects of a cold as well.The violinist, Srividhya R.S. Iyer exhibited a disciplined approach with clarity in phrasing and nimble fingering.Nanganallur Ravishankar on the mridangam, was non-obtrusive even as firm strokes came into playBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202260500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/12/images/2007011202260502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBrinda Manickavachagam.
p14
ss.