(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical pilgrimage
p3
sVnews
p4
VK.K. GOPALAKRISHNANNjaralath Harigovindan, one of the leading exponents of Sopana Sangeetam, is the son of the late Njaralath Rama Poduval who played a crucial role in preserving Sopana Sangeetam, considered the indigenous musical tradition of Kerala.Although, initially, Harigovindan had to face some setbacks, and criticism from certain conservative critics,  his music gradually overcame those hurdles.  In order to preserve his father's rich legacy, Harigovindan left his job as a high school teacher and journalist. "Although there are financial problems,  an urge motivated me to  devote myself to the popularisation of Sopana Sangeetam as a tribute to my father," says Harigovindan.Author, researcherHe is the author of `Kerala Sangeetam  -   Kettathum Kezhkkendathum,' an interesting book written for the Kerala Sahitya Akademi, which speaks volumes of the researcher in him.He gave a concert recently in  Thrissur,  under the aegis of Nanma Charitable Trust, at the regional theatre of the Kerala Sangeeta Nataka Akademi.Instead of the usual invocation to Ganapati, he began the recital with astutito an elephant, which was composed by him.  It was followed by an Ashtapadi `Priye charuseele... ..' in Mukhari.  The late Ayyappa Panicker's poem `Thathamma,' which went deep into the subtle nuances of bhava sangeetam, captivated the audience.This was followed by the Ashtapadi `Mahatimalaya sameere... ' in Anandabhairavi,  and `Mamala nade,' the singer's own composition in Padi. The alapana of Padi, a Keralite raga that exudesveera sringara, had the audience glued to their seats.However, the Ashtapadi `Lalita lavanga... ' did not match the numbers preceding it. Sung in second speed (`randaam kaalam') in Adi talam, the rhythmic speed distorted the romantic feel of the lines.A song in praise of Ramzan, `Lailathul khadarinte mazam Ramadan...,' popularised by Harigovindan himself, through different television channels, revealed another charming facet of Sopana Sangeetam. As a tribute to the late actor Oduvil Unnikrishnan, he recited `Vande Mukunda hare...,' the famous song from the film `Devasuram,' followed by `Harita janita vana mohanam...,' a composition by Dinesh Varma.The famous `Thunga Pimga Jadakalapavum' in raga Bhoopalam, a Shiva stuti that was popularised and sung last in Thrissur by Rama Poduval, came after that.Philosophical numberAlthough the singer had decided to conclude the recital with this number, he sang one more song as per the request of the listeners.  He opted for the philosophical `Bhogangal okkeyum khsanaprabha chanchalam' from `Lakshmanopadesam' of Thunchathezhuthachan.  Harigovindan preferred to concentrate on the music and left the  percussion to  Peringode Sreedharan who deftly accompanied on the edakka. The recital was a 90-minute pilgrimage into the subtle nuances of Kerala's enthralling musical heritage.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/24/stories/2006112400640200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/24/images/2006112400640201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSOULFUL MUSIC: Njaralath Harigovindan's mission is to popularise and preserve Sopana Sangeetam.
p14
ss.