(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich cultural feast
p3
sVnews
p4
VA. SANGAMESWARANSynchronised euphonic strains from the strings of Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi soothed the rasikas.Nadopasana, Irinjalakuda, paid homage to the royal composer Swati Tirunal by organising a three-day festival of music and dance recently and for the 15th year in succession.Salem Gayathri Venkatesh, disciple of T.R. Subramaniam, excelled on the first day by presenting a memorable concert. After the initial Kalyani varnam and varanamukha (Hamsadwani), she took Karnaranjini for elaboration and sang the Muthiah Bhagavathar composition `Vanchathomune.'The Vasantha piece of Tyagaraja, `Etuladorikitivo,' which is rarely heard, showed her repertoire. A well-structured neatly executedalaapanaof Dharmavathi (`Bhajanaseya') and a detailed Thodi (`Thaamathamen') were ample proof of her command and control  over her voice and vocal chords.Edappally Ajithkumar faithfully accompanied on the violin. J. Vaidyanathan, disciple of T.K. Moorthy, won the appreciation of the audience for his rhythmic expositions in Tanjore bhaani.`Ranganatha Panchakam,' `Thevaram,' `Kurai onrum illai'  -   all set to raagamalikas and a Lalgudi thillana in Maand comprised the post-thani session.Violin duetOn the second day, synchronised euphonic strains from the strings of Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi soothed therasikas.The blessings received by their forefather Rama Bhagavathar from  Tyagaraja  has percolated down the generations and the purity of the bani is maintained, refined and rejuvenated at each stage.According to Sthalapurana, Lalgudi means Bhairavi Vana and true to its meaning, Krishnan with a neat essay of raga Bhairavi, escorted the audience through its nook and corner.  A ragam thanam pallavi in Vaachaspathi tagged with raagamalikaswaraswas another memorable piece.Another important feature was that one could decipher the sahithya from their performance, whether it was `Jananipahi' (Sudhasaaveri), `Smarasada maanasa' (Bilahari) of Swati or `Aadamodi galade' (Charukesi) of Tyagaraja or `Govardhanagireesam' (Hindolam) of Dikshitar.Mohiniyattom recitalDanseuse Gopika Varma choreographed and presented Bhagavatham of Swati Tirunal in Mohiniyattam on the final day.The music set by Govinda Rao comprised Ghana raga panchakam  -   Naata, Goula, Aarabhi, Varaali and Sree. Various episodes like Poothanamoksham, Govardhonadharanam, Rasakreeda, Rukmini Swayamvaram, Viswaroopa Darsanam and Kuchela vritham were effectively emoted.Her stint with Kathakali maestro Kalamandalam Krishnan Nair has helped a lot.Rajeev (vocal), Jinapalan(violin), Reghunath (flute), Sudhaman (mridangam) and Nandakumar (edakka) contributed to the success of this thematic solo.Sangeetharaadhana, Sopana sangeetham, Naadha Samanwayam and a Raaga Samanwayam, wherein selected compositions of Irayimman Thampi were rendered by Rajeev in Kathakali style and Reju Narayanan in Carnatic style added variety to the festival.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/05/stories/2006050500290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/05/images/2006050500290303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGopika Varma
p14
ss.