(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFolk artistes to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe highlight of the Uttarakhand cultural evening organised by Parvatiya Sanskritik Sanstha at Kamani auditorium this past week was a rare display of beats of dhol sagar, a hilly drum of ancient origin which is now on the verge of extinction.What made the dhol sagar recital memorable was that it was played by Uttam Das, a traditional player from village Sanwali.  His grandfather was a legendary folk artiste.Uttam Das appeared on the stage in attractive clothes. He had an impressive stage presence with two drums, one a big one and another &#8211; damau &#8211; relatively smaller, round his neck. He danced while beating these two drums, producing intricate sounds with tonal variety.He began with the evocation of his family deity &#8212; Pundri Kakshyani, followed by Ganesha vandana, Pondava dance and Bhairav dance. Then he presented drumbeats capturing the mood of a marriage party arriving at the bride&#8217;s place, contrasting it with beats evoking talas that project the mood at the time of departure of marriage procession with bride.Honoured by the Governor of Uttarakhand, Uttam Das, known for his innovation, is credited with elevating dhol sagar to the level of solo performance, which required four traditional artistes in the original form. As a result of his novel artistry, young people are being attracted to these folk drums used on auspicious occasions (Chandra Singh Rahi, a traditional folk singer, composer and researcher, is trying to codify the complex talas of this drum to for posterity.)Choreographed by Kalpana Chauhan, a dance number presented by young artistes captured the mood of the rainy season in the hills. Some lyrics evoked the joyous mood of the people who wanted to be one with the lush green environment and some echoed a tinge of sadness caused by the separation from near and dear ones. Another folk dance form known as Jhora, popular during spring season, was presented by a group of young artistes.The old world folk tunes and graceful dance movement evoked nostalgia among the audience. As a composer and choreographer Kalpana has depended much on Western orchestra in lieu of folk ones. The presentation was slick but folk flavour was distinctly missing. The evening came to an end with the famous song &#8220;Bedu Paako Bara Maasa&#8221;. Initially rewritten by B.L. Shah and composed by Mohan Upreti in the &#8217;50s, this song was known in East European countries and Soviet Union for its lively rhythm and clarion call for world peace. In Uttarakhand it continues to capture the imagination of the hill masses. Kalpana&#8217;s music has faster tempo than it was originally rendered by Mohan Upreti and Naima Khan. It was in the form of a group dance which established a lively rapport between the audience and the performers.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/09/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/09/04/stories/2009090450150300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.