(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic without frills
p3
sVnews
p4
VGOWRI RAMNARAYANHer glistening, full-fledged Sahana remained with you long after Amritha Murali's Vijayadasami Day concert at Raga Sudha Hall. The noble tone and niceties in gamaka brimmed with feeling, while intelligence ensured that the raga was not overstretched in repetitions or inaccuracies.  Muthuswami Dikshitar's exquisite ``Kamalambikayam'' (Tisra Triputa) was handled with a maturity rare in so young a musician, proving that the song had been internalised before being rendered on the stage.The artiste set high goals in her presentation and kriti content. All the songs were on Ambal and Devi, but varied in composers (including N.S.Chidambaram and Krishnaswami Iyer), raga (from ghana raga Nattai to desya raga Kapi), tempo (vilamba, madhyama, durita), and tala.Kalyani, the first serious raga essay, betrayed some vocal unease, a bar to free flow in manodharma. Nor was Tyagaraja's ``Sundari ni'' without discomfort. Here Akkarai Subbulakshmi's violin proved a boon, banking strongly, and rich in supplementing the raga essay.But Amritha recovered range and continuity with the faster ``Amba paradevate'' (Rudrapriya), while continuity in feeling and phrasing made for an intense Todi.An ardent resonance was invoked, a fitting prelude to Swati Tirunal's Navaratri kriti ``Bharati Mamava," rarely heard outside the Navaratri mandapam, Trivandrum temple.Notable improvementsListening to Amritha after a long gap was to realise notable improvements in vocalisation. Her voice projection centralised akaram. Her approach remained classicist, veering towards gamaka rather than briga, with a penchant for ravai sangatis and subtle prayogas. Amritha's neraval impressed with its impeccable melodiousness. Her kalpanaswaras had zest minus gimmickry. The swara finale in Todi played with canny rhythms, not aggressively, but with lilt intact, highlighted adroitly by B.Ganapathiraman's mridangam.The concert ended prayerfully, with verses on Devi Sarada, in viruttham (`Sarada Bhujangam') kriti (`Sarade Karunanidhe,' Hamir) and a Saradamba mangalam, the last two composed by the acharyas of the Sringeri Mutt.Akkarai Subbulakshmi was an asset to the performance, adding beauty and depth with every phrase, alone or in tandem. Ganapathiraman did not allow the drum to dominate, but managed to make every song more interesting. His underlining of neraval and kalpanaswara added definitiveness. Voice, string and drum offered music without frills. With their kind of music they didn't need any.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100601770400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100601770401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBRIMMED WITH FEELING: Amritha Murali.
p14
ss.