(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCelebration of sound
p3
sVnews
p4
VSangeetha Ksheera Sagaram recently conducted the six-day music fest featuring local talents from Hyderabad and all the concerts were dedicated to Uppalapati Ankiah.On the first day Jayapradha Ramamurthy, a noted flautist from the city gave a melodious recital. With Pavan Sing on the violin, Burra Sriram on the midangam, and Janaradhan on the ghatam, she began her concert with Vatapi in Hamsadwani with creative swaram. Srirama padama in Amruthavahini was a soothing composition, followed by brief Vasantabhairavi for Ramarama nine, a rare item with elegant swaram. The main item was an RTP in Valaji. The ragam has been explored neatly by the artiste with good technique. Chandrabanu presented a neat concert along with K. Rajan on the violin and Vidyasagar on the mridangam. She began with Kedaragowla varnam, Sami daya, and then sang Pranamamyaham in Gowla. Nenarunchinanu in Simhavahini and Annapoorne in Sama were some of the popular items sung before she took Thodi as the main item, where Chandrabanu's refreshing ragam was appreciable. Enduku dayaradha with calculative swaram was good enough to create an atmosphere. The percussion duo did well to keep up the tempo of the concert. Madhua madhura meenakshi in Bhagesreem and a Lalgudi thillana in Revati were the concluding items. Emani Kalyani presented a fine concert with Kapa Srinivas on the mridangam and T.P. Balu on the ghatam. Kalyani has controlled technique on the instrument. She began with Swaminatha paripalayamam in Nata before taking up Nijamarmamulanu in Umabharanam. Upendram Asryamamyaham in Khamas was a rare item. Sowmya Sridhar, a promising youngster, performed on the fourth day. She began her concert with Valaji varnam. A brief ragam of Natakuranji for Mayamma nannu brova followed. Vidajaladura in Janaranjani came out in a refreshing way. Sowmya tried her best for the krithi Bala Gopala of Dikshitar with neraval and swaram. Rajashekar on the violin and Omprakash on the mridangam lent able support. Malladi Suri Babu, a top rank vidwan from Vijayawada and the disciple of Voletti Venkateswarlu, gave a scintillating vocal with Dinakar on the violin, Burra Sriram on the mridangam, and Raghuram on moresing. Suri Babu began with Vallabhasya Nayakasya in Begada followed by Pattividuvaradu in Manjari.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/24/stories/2010092450290200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/24/images/2010092450290201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VJayapradha Ramamurty
p14
ss.