(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic for all
p3
sVnews
p4
VNurturing talent Guru Bala Kondala Rao teaching children the nuances of dance at the summer camp.Since its inception, the Kalaaparichayam programme for music awareness has steadily grown in popularity. The programme was designed for imparting basic music training for a period of 40 days during the summer vacation under the aegis of the Government College of Music and Dance. The programme aims at familiarising youngsters with fine arts, with focus on music and dance.To mark the successful conclusion of one such schedule of the programme organised by the Maharaja Government College of Music and Dance, a function was organised at Sri Sankara Matham. The college organised Kalaaparichayam at 42 centres in Visakhapatnam, 20 centres in Vizianagaram and 18 centres in Srikakulam.Principal of the college, P.V.S. Seshaiah Sastry, and guest of honour, Vuda vice-chairman G. Venkatarami Reddy, gave away certificates to the teachers and the students. Earlier, the evening got off to a vibrant start with a short violin recital by P. Tulasi, D. Bheemasena Rao, Ch. Dhanunjaya Rao, V. Santosh Kumar and Ayyappa, accompanied on mridangam by P. Ramesh. This was followed by a similar vocal recital by P. Pavani and P. Tulasi with the support of Ch. Dhanunjaya Rao on violin and P. Ramesh on mridangam.A similar function was held in the premises of the Kuchipudi Kalaakshetram of the renowned danseuse and teacher, A.B. Balakondala Rao, who also organised the Kalaaparichayam programme in her institute under the aegis of Vijaya Sankar Government College of Music and Dance, Rajahmundry.Besides receiving the certificates, all the 31 youngsters also danced their way into the hearts of the audience, presenting a few basicadavusandjathisthey learnt during the 40 days. TheGanapathi Pancharatna SthutiinRaagamalika, presented by seniors Amuktamalyada, Nayab from Kashmir and Aditya, provided the grand finale. While Bala providednattuvangam, Central School music teacher Dwaram Thyagaraju not only lent mellifluent vocal support but also compered the programme.A.R.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/06/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/06/10/stories/2005061001320200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.