(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSongs styled to delight
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Sangeetam concert derived its verve from the presentation of Pandit Vidyadhar Vyas. There is something delectable in the vibrant voice of this singer,  son and disciple of the late Pandit Narayan Rao Vyas, that echoes with  old world charm. He presented the poised Poorvi  as his opening raga, and dealt with it in great detail with a slow  composition in Tilwada tala and the popular chhota khayal &#8220;Khagwa bole hamari ataria&#8230;&#8221; The mesmerising manoeuvring of the twin Madhyams was the pivotal point of the unhurried and detailed treatment of the challenging raga.Raga Kedar created a comely contrast next, when Pandit Vyas sang the bada khayal &#8220;Ban than aayi&#8221; set to slow Tilwada and &#8220;Kanganawa mora&#8221; in Teen tala madhya laya, followed by a brisk tarana, and delighted the audience with his effortless taans and rhythmic play.Parmeshwar Hegde from Bengaluru, who sang on the opening day, took quite some time to warm up in his main raga Puria Kalyan, while singing the bara khayal &#8220;Aaj so bana&#8221; set to slow Ek tala. By the time he reached the Teen tala chhota khayal &#8220;Bahut din beete&#8221;, immortalised by Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, he came into his real form. But his stress was mostly on the alankaarik taans only. Though raga Bihag that came next, with a Jhap tala composition and a tarana set to Drut Ek tala,  was good enough to prove his advanced training under Pandit Vasavraj Rajguru.Prasun Chatterjee on the tabla and Vinayak Waldhurkar on the harmonium provided admirable support to both the artistes.The VSK Baithak, at Sai Sabhagar, presented  Anuradha Kuber,  a talented disciple of Pandit T.D. Janurikar, the legendary guru of the obscure Bhindi Bazar gharana. The  baithak was dedicated to the late Shanti Sharma. Hence, she first presented some shlokas from Jnaneshwari of Sant-Jnaneshwar before raga Bhupali, that was dealt with systematically with two compositions in slow and medium tempo Teen tala respectively. Anuradha presented Aman Ali Khan Saheb&#8217;s compositions in raga Jog next, set to Rupak and Teen tala respectively. She is endowed with a melodious voice and good grooming but she needs time to mature.She had superb support on the harmonium by Suyog Kundalkar and on the tabla by Bharat Kamath.Vocalist Savita Devi, who performed at Epicentre, has inherited from her famous guru-ma, the legendary Siddheshwari Devi, the typical nuances of the Benarasi andaaz of light classical genres and she showcased it beautifully in the thumri in Khamaj and the dadra in Mishra Pahadi. Apart from kajri and Hori, she also sang a ghazal that she had composed in raga Marwa with additional shades of Poorvi. The concluding bhajan was a bit folksy  and could not match the earlier standard. She had ace accompanists  in Kamaal on the sarangi, Ballu Khan on the harmonium and Akhtar Hasan on the tabla.Sitar player Suneera Kasliwal played alap-jod-jhala and three compositions in raga Yaman Kalyan set to slow, medium and drut (fast) Teen tala respectively. A talented disciple of Pandit Lal Mani Mishra, Suneera handled the raga deftly with romantic touches of Shuddha Madhyam. She concluded her recital with a dhun followed by a drut Teen tala composition in raga Khamaj, but her sitar kept troubling her till the end, and she had to stop and tune it time and again. Arup Chatterjee ably accompanied her on the tabla.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/30/stories/2008053050820200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.