(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPerformed like a veteran
p3
sVnews
p4
VYet another M. Balamuralikrishna is here who regaled the audience at  Nada Bharati.  This 19-year-old displayed the maturity of a senior. Nada Bharati organised the concert at the venue of the Music Lovers Association in Bagh Amberpet. The singer was accompanied by K. Venkatakrishna  on the violin and P. Srinivasa Gopalan on themridangam.Balamurali started off well and as he progressed one found  him to be a good artiste in the making. He is a disciple of  Sangeetha Acharya P.S. Narayana Swamy. He revealed his innate talent while  executing fluentbirkaasand showed remarkable ability to negotiate through  speedsangatis. He should concentrate more on his rendition of the raga.Unlike other present-day young singers who sing with the help of handwritten notes, Balamurali sang by rote.  That reflected the artiste's concentration and rigorous practice. His repertoire was  quite balanced and he has an appealing style. Balamurali who  hails from a family of musicians,  opened the concert with aKaanada Ata Thala Varnamand went for the invocation,Sri MahaganapatiinGowla. This was marked by fluentswaras.Remarkable swaraprastharaDhanyudevvadoinMalayamaruthamtoo was a remarkable rendition especially theSwaraprasatharahe presented. He choseDharmavathito give the taste of his skill in the delineation of the raga. The melody shaped up well with a certain degree of discipline, moving step by step with appropriate phrasing.Bhajana Seya Raadaof Mysore Vasudevachar was his choice in this. The rendition of thesahityabrought out its devotional appeal.Theswarastoo were in variegated rhythmic patterns. But when it came toTodi, his main choice of the evening, he could not probe it too well to give a complete and aesthetic picture, though the presentation was quite exhaustive. The raga spread in the middle and top octaves was  appealing.Kaddanuvariki, a popular number,   was quite expressive. Theneravalandswaraswere enjoyable. TheTani Avartanamby Srinivasa Gopalan and Venkatakrishna'sTodiversion on his violin, made the concert rich. Narayana Teertha'sKalyana GopalaminSindhu BhairaviandKrishna Yana BaradoinMadhukaunsmarked the latter part of the concert. H.S. Gururajachar, a senior musician, felicitated the artistes.GUDIPOODI SRIHARIBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/08/stories/2005070801710300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/08/images/2005070801710301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTALENTED YOUNGSTER Balamurali enthralled the audience.
p14
ss.