(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive anniversary fete
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe first two concerts of the festival were held at Ravindra Bharati, while third one was held at Bharatiaya Vidyabhavan. The Hyderabad Brothers Raghavachari and Seshachari opened the festival with an absorbing vocal duet in the company of Peri Sriramamurthy on violin and Vijaybhasker on mridangam. The Brothers opened with Navaraga malika varnam and rendered it in Vilamba and Druth tempos.Teliyaleru Ramabhaktiin Dhenuka was their next number, rendered with goodsahityaexpression of each line, pregnant withbhakti bhava. It was also marked with extensiveswarakalpanain rhythmic syllables displaying rich imagination of the brothers. AfterDandamu pettenurain Balahamsa, a rare composition of Thygaraja, the duo took upGanamurthyfor delineation and the treatment of the raga in higher octave was a beauty.Yennadu Joothunoin Chakravakam was another fine composition they presented.The second programme was that of Chennai-based Amrutha Venkatesh. She is the student of M.T. Sarvanarayana and Charumati Ramachandran and the recipient of central government scholarship and won many awards as best vocalist including &#8216;Voleti memorial award&#8217; from Krishna Gana sabha of Chennai. Amrutha opened with Kalyana ata tala varnam in Vilamba and Drut kalas. Then she went for Mayamalavagowla raga kirtanaDevadeva Kalayamiof Swathi Tirunal which adding an imaginativeswarakalpana. She then gave a sketch of Nayaki for Thyagaraja&#8217;sNee Bhajana Ganaand followed it with a rare compositionSanatanain Phalamanjani presented withsahitya bhava.  Later she rendered a TarangamGovindamiha Gopikanandain Ragesri. K.S.Venkatasubramanyam on violin and G.J. Arjun Ganesh on mridangam lent good support.On the third evening, scions of Dwaram family - Durga Prasad, Manorama and Satyanarayana Rao - gave a pleasing violin concert. The trio satiated the curiosity of the listener to enjoy the rare Dwaram bani, set by their grandfather, Venkataswami Naidu. They began the concert with Bhairavi raga Ata Tala varnam striking rapport with audience. Durga Prasada Rao played the first raga of the concert, Sourashtra with the other two joining him in playingSriganapatini Sevimpararein it. After the trio played another compositionHechharikagararain Yadukula Kambhoji, Durga Prasad essayed Kamalamanohari.Kanjadalayatakshiof Deekshitar was their choice in this.Nijamarmamulanuin Umabharanam was another interesting offering by them. Ranjani was the third raga also delineated by Durga Prasad. Their choice number in this wasDurmargacharadhamulawith all the three sharing the play of Neravu andswarakalpanaeach displaying their own imagination, bringing out the flavour of Dwaram bani.Ninuvinain Navarasa Kannada andNagumomu ganaleniin Abheri were other notable pieces of the concert. The chose later Sankarabharanam for their ragam-tanam-pallavi exercise in Sakarabharanam.Swararagasudhawas the kriti they presented with imaginativeswarakalpana. After a long time one got to watch mridangam maestro Kamalakara Rao in action who gave an intuitive mridangam support along with another percussion artiste K. Krishna Prakash on Kanjira.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/11/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/11/02/stories/2007110250520300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.