(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFinger on the audience pulse
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIRotary Club of Coimbatore Saicity had organised `Idhayaragangal,' a jugalbandi of Carnatic and Hindustani music by  Sriram Parasuram and Anooradha Sriram at PSGIMSR auditorium, Coimbatore, in aid of their welfare scheme, `Gift of life.' The money collected is to be spent towards medical treatment, including heart surgery, for  children below twelve.Equally adept in  Carnatic and Hindustani, Sriram and Anooradha captivated the audience with their choice of songs, melodious voice and style of presentation. Feeling the pulse of the audience,  they did not go  deep into establishing the identities of the two styles of singing and aimed at  presenting a pleasing recital which could be enjoyed by all.While Sriram's  deep voice provided the anchor, the high-pitched voice of Anooradha explored great heights without sacrificing melody. Their performance showed the amount of persistent hard work they had put in and the meticulous care with which they had maintained the purity of each style. According to tradition, they began with the Hamsadhwani kriti, "Vatapi Ganapathim Bhajeham'' and followed it up with a tarana in the same raga in Hindustani style.Bharathiar songAfter a brief alapana of Madhu Kauns, they sang Bharatiar's  "Unmai Arindhavar" in which he challenges `maya' and tells her that she cannot conquer those people who know the truth and she will meet with no success in conquering him.In the same raga they sang a moving `khayal' in which a  love-lorn woman  conveys  her yearning for her lover to a kite and requests  it to be her messenger: "Ja Ja Re Ja Ja Pathika Va, Piya Ko Mera Sandesha Le Ja."A  Marathi abhang in Jinjoti by Sant Tukaram kept the audience in thrall. It celebrated the loveliness of the Lord of Pandarpur, and the way the couple presented it, pouring all their skill and energy into it, accompanied by all the instruments, making  it an unforgettable experience.They sang popular numbers like "Kaakkai Siraginile" in Brindavana Saranga, "Srinivasa Thiruvenkatamudaiyaan" in Hamsanandhi, "Kurai Onrum Illai" (ragamalika) and "Karunai Deivame" in Sindhubhairavi. "Bho Shambho" in Revathy lent a lot of scope for the percussionists.Parur M. A. Sundaresan (violin), Bangalore Praveen (mridangam), Umakant Puranik (harmonium) and Srikant (tabla) enhanced the effect of the programme without exceeding their limits.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/24/stories/2006022400230200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/24/images/2006022400230201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFOR A CAUSE: Sriram Parasuram and Anooradha performing a jugalbandi. &#151;   Photo: K. Ananthan
p14
ss.