(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA tale of two singers
p3
sVnews
p4
VSavita Devi is an acknowledged master of thumri, dadra, tappa, chaiti, kajari and other lighter form of music. Her mother Siddheshwari Devi personified the poorab ang thumri and dadra of Banaras and was a member of the singing trinity along with Rasoolan Bai and Begum Akhtar. Besides learning from her mother, Savita Devi also learnt the high-brow khayal singing from the legendary Dilip Chandra Vedi and Mani Prasad. Last week, she sang at a concert organised by Raga Ranjani at the India Habitat Centre.Savita Devi began with a thumri &#8220;Ankhiyan Raseelee Tori Shyam&#8221; in raga Mishra Tilang and brought out the erotic element in a sublime manner. Although her voice gave her trouble in the first few minutes, she did not take much time to warm up and offered a memorable excursion into the art of bol-banao, a speciality of the Banaras ang thumri. Savita Devi went on improvising by singing the same words of the thumri in myriad ways and thus portraying them in various emotional hues. She wrapped up her recital with a famous dadra of her mother &#8220;Shyam Kya Jadoo Dara&#8221; and sang it with great involvement and verve. It was unfortunate that such a senior and seasoned singer was allotted only half-an-hour by the organisers who had sandwiched her performance between a khayal recital by Shikha Ganguly and a Kathak recital by Paulomi Mukherjee. Savita Devi was ably accompanied by Pradeep Chatterjee on the tabla and Badlu Khan on the harmonium.Pleasant voiceThe Attic has made a name for itself by organising small musical soirees. Last week, it invited Kasturi Atrawalkar, a young and upcoming singer, trained by an able representative of the Gwalior gharana Balasaheb Poochhwale and by Vinayak Torvi who has learnt from various gurus including Basavraj Rajguru, Mallikarjun Mansur and Bhimsen Joshi and combines the musical traditions of the Agra, Gwalior, Jaipur and Kirana gharanas. The programme was aimed at exploring raga Kalyan and the singer was expected to offer its variants. Kasturi has a pleasant voice and throws it with commendable precision and power. She began with a traditional bandish &#8220;Mora Man Baandh Leeno&#8221; in raga Yaman Kalyan and sang it with all the required embellishments. Her taiyaari was impressive but she seemed a little too fond of rendering bol taans. She went on to sing a drut composition in Yaman Kalyan before switching to raga Gorakh Kalyan. Her choice of Gorakh Kalyan was a little intriguing as this raga hardly has anything of the Kalyan raganga except for the preponderance of madhyam. Many musicologists do not even consider it a part of the Kalyan constellation. Kasturi sang it well and chose a tarana in raga Puriya Kalyan to conclude her recital.While her khayals were impressive, her tarana did not have much to write home about. When she saw that the audience was not willing to budge, she sang a Bhairavi bhajan that turned out to be a fitting finale. However, one could not help feeling that as she was expected to explore the vast expanse of Kalyan, she could have chosen ragas like Khem Kalyan, Nand Kalyan and Shuddh Kalyan in which the presence of the Kalyan raganga is truly prominent. However, Kasturi Atrawalkar does seem to have a bright future as a classical vocalist and is expected to go a long way. Abhijit Aich and Vinay Mishra accompanied her on the tabla and harmonium respectively and impressed the listeners with their understated playing.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/17/stories/2011061750110200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/17/images/2011061750110201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKasturi Atrawalkar.
p14
ss.