(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBoth profound and entertaining
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANMohan Santhanam's vocal concert at the `Swagatham Margazhi Sangeeta Vizha' at Bharat Kalachar was both entertaining and  profound in terms of content.The up-and-coming singer's sub-major Gamakakriya exposition was a good prelude to Muthuswami Dikshitar's "Meenakshi Memudam." The swaras sans neraval at `Madurapuri Nilaye' were replete with groups with a special signature of the raga's characteristic notes `pa da pa sa.'The Ragam Tanam Pallavi in Bhairavi was intentionally complex with a neat tanam and a crisp pallavi set in kanda jathi triputa talam, tisra nadai.Brisk startThe trikalam part was done with the ragamalika trail in Nalinakanti, Bhavapriya and Madhyamavati. For a brisk start, Mohan chose the jazzy Kadhana Kuthoohalam varnam, "Charanagata Vatsale" by Kolkata Krishnamurthi and a spicy "Valarisamane" in Malavi by Oothukkadu Venkatakavi with a protracted swara segment and for balancing a slow and staid "Narayana Pankaja Charane" in Dwijawanti by V.V.Srivatsa.Mohan's alapana style goes with precarious swings between upper-middle and lower regions. Truly, this evidences his good training but should he indulge in extra and deliberate over stress on the starting and landing kaarvais? They sound visibly laborious and superfluous. A conscious control and underplay would be a better approach.S. Varadarajan on the violin was on the same wavelength with Mohan although he tried to go overboard wherever possible. The senior percussion artistes helped in elevating the quality of the concert.While Trichur Narendran's mridangam sounded in right decibel, T.V.Vasan's pot split the ears for some time due to extra amplification.Composed and carefulIf voice and age are in their favour, singers invariably tend to get carried away while performing. But not the Padma Seshadri Sisters, Randhini and Roshini. Their voices are pleasant in unison and they keep a perfect ambit and work within that. Opening their vocal recital with a Tamil varnam in Saranga, they quickly picked up momentum with kritis like "Tatvamariya Tarama" in Ritigowlai and "Kumaran Taal Pani" in Yadukulakhambodi, both by Sivan. There was a brief prelude of Sriranjani by Randhini. Here alone their limitation surfaced.The manodharma of an artiste could be judged on how the nuances of the melody are exploited for a precise or detailed alapana. Randhini was moving on the periphery without touching the core.Nevertheless, the Purandaradasa number, "Palisamma Muddhu Sharade" and the few rounds of kalpanaswaras in varying nadai at "Sarvalankara" were dexterous. Bilahari, initiated by Randhini, was taken up by Roshini, who could do more justice in the content part. "Sri Balasubramanyaya" of Dikshitar and the swaras at `Sanagaati' were done with veneration.Ragam Tanam Pallavi in Shanmukhapriya ("Velai Panivadey Nam Velai Adi Kaalai Nam Velai") with Tamil words punned  to give different meaning. The raga alapana by Roshini and the tanam by Randhini trod the careful and gentle path.Melakkaveri Thyagarajan responded to the sisters well on the violin. Sivakumar on the mridangam and Venkatasubramaniam on the ghatam proved how the beats could bolster the singing in `Nambikkettavar' in Hindolam and in their tani avartanam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802630800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802630802.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPadma Seshadri Sisters.
p14
ss.