(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAll for love
p3
sVnews
p4
VNumber 13 is no more unlucky. After producing 13 music albums, well-known Punjabi crooner Shankkar Sahney is back with yet another album,Ho Gayaa Pyaarafter the success of his last album,Kudi Kurmuri. The new album is his 14th in succession.This time, he joins hands with his brother Vivek Sahney who has also scored music for the album, which contains party songs and also some sad numbers. The album, as Shankkar puts it, brings his emotional side to the fore, besides his `masti' image.Apart from nine fast tracks, there are two numbers that depict parents' grief when their grown-up children leave in search of greener pastures and no one is there to look after them. The song "Maa" is dedicated to parents, and "Dheeaan" to daughters who leave their parents' house after their marriage. Shankkar himself has penned these two songs.A new model, Surabhi, has also been launched in the album's video. Since two songs are picturised in California, he calls it "totally international" and has accordingly changed his looks as well. Now you will see him sporting a goatee and funky clothes.Despite being a pop singer, Shankkar doesn't advocate remixes. "It is both a boon and a curse. When I see young children singing old songs, I feels delighted, but at the same time, remixes kill the originality of a song. Moreover, the vulgarity of their videos makes it impossible to watch it with the family," he rues.For this Chemical Engineer from Chandigarh, his father, Tej Bahadur Sahney, Head of the Music Department, Government College, Gurdaspur, has been his guiding light all through. Last year, Shankkar was honoured at an annual award ceremony held at Toronto, Canada, as the Best Pop Singer. Till date, he has performed in more than 1400 music shows. Now his kitty is full with live performances and movies, he says.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/30/stories/2005123002970100.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.