(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical reminiscences
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn the second half of the 20th century, Kathakalirasikasin Kerala were spellbound by the baani of a vocalist from Shantiniketan, Calcutta. His rendition of stanzas and padams had a psychedelic effect on the actors on stage.Consummate vocalistsHis Bohemian way of life and nomadic instincts found  acceptance among the neo-conservative Kathakali audience. It is now more than 15 years since he passed away.  The CD is a tribute to Unnikrishna Kurup and to the consummate vocalist, the late Venmani Haridas.Unnnikrishna Kurup and Venmani Haridas were not an ideal pair on the Kathakali stage. Both of them had little in common when it came to in regard to the selection and treatment of ragas, mode of singing and pronunciation of each word. Yet when they came together as Ponnani and Sangidi respectively on a few occasions, they enchanted the listeners.In the CD, we can hear the full-throated singing of Kurup and Haridas without a shade of crooning or artificial effects. One of the most distinguished padams in the play `Rukmangadacharitam' is `Madhurathara komalavadane,' sung by Rukmangada to the damsel Mohini, in raga Kamboji and Chembada tala.The rendering of thissringarappadambecomes a vocal celebration for Kurup who had an inexplicable affinity towards Kamboji raga.  The first part of the CD ends with the humming of raga Aanandabhairavi and the singing of the stanza, `Saakethaadheesanode.'Both the humming and the rendering of the stanza prove to be instrumental in transforming the whole atmosphere to the re-entry of Mohini, the seductress.In the second part, Kurup, supported by Haridas, has exquisitely sung the padam, `Sumasara! Subhagasareera.' The padams that follow are the lamentations of king Rukmangada and his pleas to Mohini.`Naadha Janardana' in raga Mukhari appeals to us as a heart-renting prayer. Kurup had changed the raga of a short padam of Dharmangada, `Amba, Thozhuthen,' from Bilahari to Kanada. This alteration  suited the context.All the padams invariably appeal to us as a synthesis of the sonorous voice of Kurup and the melodious tone of Haridas. While listening to the CD, the absence of the two vocalists  become acute  in the minds of  avidrasikas.V. KALADHARANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/19/stories/2006051900200200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/19/images/2006051900200201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTribute to Unnikrishna Kurup and Venmani Haridas.
p14
ss.