(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpeccable guru bhakti, artiste of mature refinement
p3
sVnews
p4
VS.VIJAYARAGHAVANAny reference to Trichur V. Ramachandran would automatically recall memories of the great and noble G.N.Balasubramaniam.  It would not be an exaggeration to state that Ramachandran was in a sense GNB's blue-eyed boy in his later years. He was with him throughout, imbibed the nuances of his master's extraordinary music and above all stood by his master's side at all times.The first and foremost attribute that one would recall is his impeccable guru bhakti which certainly has stood him in good stead. Born in an illustrious family, his father being Chief Justice, Cochin High Court, culture and art were part of his heritage.It was no coincidence that with a ringing and mellifluous voice, Ramachandran should seek out GNB as his guru. He would accompany his master all over the country and the extraordinary fidelity to his master's style and the manner of producing the voice were noticed with delight by the vast GNB aficionados.Mature artisteIt is to  Ramachandran's credit that starting with this goodwill, he has developed over the years into an artiste of mature refinement.He has over the years, grown into a musician of originality bringing in his own vision to musicThere may be  a situation where a musician consciously breaks away from the path of the guru and as if to make a statement, creates a style for himself which very often may not work.On the other hand, a mature and rooted musician like Ramachandran who is aware of his heritage, does not want, in any manner to disinherit it and while retaining the strengths of the school has proceeded to evolve for himself a special niche.   GNB never wanted his disciples to be replicas or carbon copies of his music.I have heard  Ramachandran in many concerts and I have marvelled at his creativity, particularly in raga alapana. I remember a Kalyani which he sang at a family function, accompanied by  V.V.Ravi and  Palghat Raghu. I remember vividly the songs he sang on that day. He started with Begada varnam and went on to `Swaminatha Paripalaya' (Nattai) and thereafter Pantuvarali and `Ramanatham Bajeham.'Ritigowlai and Ragaratna followed these initial pieces.This was followed by an extraordinary Kalyani, the like of which I have not heard in recent years followed by a splendid `Yethavunara.' Thereafter, followed many tukkadas for which his master was famous, all sung with a passion where the pieces were not merely a repetition of the master's dictum, but a product of internalising and of making them his own.I have always found that his concerts are bright and vivacious and have never heard a concert that flopped. He would make something of the concert, even if on that particular day, his voice was not in great fettle.This is a very great attribute for a professional musician and would be appreciated by those who are in the field.New dimensionApart from this, I must mention the fact that his forays into Hindustani music have only enhanced and brought about a new dimension to his musicianship.There has always been in him a quest to do something different and new. Thus he has been part of many theatre presentations and operas where the music has been provided by him. He is a person with an emancipated mind. I have never once found him speaking ill of any musician or any person for that matter. There is a certain dignity in bearing which comes through, and there is a uniform warmth and friendship which is quite rare in any field. He is singularly blessed in his family with his wife Charumathi Ramachandran herself an eminent musician and daughter Subashri Ramachandran following in the parents' footsteps.Ramachandrann  has been honoured by the Government of India with `Padmabhushan.' He has also been the recipient of many other honours and awards.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120102430600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120102430601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTrichur V. Ramachandran.
p14
ss.