(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor some real Western classical
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe society&#8217;s president announced that this was a landmark performance, in that the complete piece was being presented by the MMA for the first time. That turned out not to be quite accurate: they did 32 items from the oratorio, omitting 21 items in the score, so in fact the piece as presented was two thirds complete. That was not necessarily a bad thing. Despite the steep prices of the tickets (ranging up to Rs 1,000) it was a difficult evening in many ways.Though indicated by costume as well as ticket prices as a professional musical concert, it is nevertheless a tradition here for soloists to be drawn from among the chorus members. Though only four are called for in the score, eight were chosen for their nice voices, but it was clear that the extra voices were asked to sing because it would be nice to ask them rather than because they were needed. All but three had voices too small to be heard over the full orchestra.An annoyance was that after every item, the musical flow was stopped, and we were made to hold our breath until the musical thought resumed. That, for example, recitatives belong seamlessly together with what follows them seemed to have escaped the notice of the conductor. I should add that one of the soloists, Anisha Simon, did stand out as a particularly promising talent. She was, alas, permitted only one item.Performers are generally as good their conductors permit, and as there were two conductors involved, the music under each was notably different. In several of the items conducted by Dr Samuel Grubb, the music was in disarray: the lower strings were too often at least a bar out of synch with the rest of the players and the chorus for long stretches.Trumpets were present, but given their problems with playing in time and tune, would better have been substituted with a synthesiser, as was the tympani part, though even that was played badly out of time). The chorus members, while watching intently, were often not brought in by the conductor, and their entries therefore sometimes late or early.Timing was the major problem throughout the evening. At no point did the music actually come to a crashing halt, but several times, especially in the final chorus, I was holding my breath in anticipation of the need to start a piece over because everyone was at a different place in the music and the ensemble seemed incapable of listening to each other sufficiently to come to agreement about where they actually were. The chorus responded better to the clearer conducting patterns and cueing of  Augustine Paul, whose care for dynamics and shaping of lines were evident. He had clearly listened to recent performances of this music, as his interpretation demonstrated. There were still problems with the orchestra, which one could see clearly was not watching either conductor anyway.This city deserves music at this level of musical demands to be studied, rehearsed and performed well. There was a time when, for those interested in the Western classical tradition, concert performances of music like this were common here. May that be the case in the future. But let musicians here, whether in this August Society or others in the city, actually study the music they perform, seek advice by whatever means possible as to its interpretation and learn it well.But let them not assume that their ideas of how much better an earlier time was are sufficient to inform their practice today. That practice is in a shabby state indeed, and needs most urgently to be addressed.Costly though that may be, in terms of rehearsal time, bank accounts and egos, nothing less than spending, with humility, the time and money necessary will bring real Western classical music here by people other than the Max Mueller Bhavan, the Alliance Fran&#231;aise, or the British Council. The Americans abandoned that effort years ago.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/09/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/09/14/stories/2007091451260300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.