(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGiving boost to talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VLaya Vedika, a sabha established in 2001 in Vijayawada to encourage talent amongst  percussion artistes, organises annual competitions in junior and senior categories in mridangam and awards the winners with cash prizes. This time, the seventh annual competitions were held at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram, where nearlly twenty young mridangam artistes participated both categories.  Senior vidwans N. S. Kalyanaraman and M. Srinivas were the judges for the day, which was   inaugurated by Jonnavittula Prabhakara Sastri, an auditor and a lover of music.The first and second prizes in the junior category went to K. Aravind and V. Sayi Srikar respectively. No prizes were awarded in the senior category. But G. Sandeep and N. Siva Sankar were given consolation prizes.In the evening session, veteran violin vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswamy was  honoured by  the senior mridangam artiste Dandamudi Ramamohan Rao on behalf of the sabha. The sabha also conferred the title Laya Praveena on Annavarapu. The day came to and end with an excellent vocal concert by  D. V. Mohanakrishna, Hyderabad, a senior disciple of Dr.  Balamurali Krishna.  He has a  deep sonorous voice, which is  passed with remarkable clarity. Hismanodharmashowed sharp imagination and confidence in execution. Mohanakrishna began the concert with a crispvarnaminNatacomposed by his guru Balamuralikrishna and followed it withSogasu jooda taramainKannada gowla,Siva Siva Siva YanaradainPantuvaraliandSara sara samaraika soorainKuntalavarali.Mohanakrishna particularly excelled in the delineation ofBilahariin which he renderedKanugontinias the main item of the concert. Thekriticame to a close with finekalpana swaras. Violinist Palaparthi Nageswara Rao and mridangist N. S. Kalyanaraman gave able support ands proved their mettle in their solo chances.P. S. RBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/16/stories/2007021600330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.