(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA singer with promise
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram featured a very promising young artiste, Marty Vasantha Subbalakshmi. The visually challenged  artiste is musically very talented. Vasantha began her training in music at the age of six under the tutelage of Dr. Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana. She is currently undergoing vigorous training from Dr. Vyzarsu Balasubramanyam. She has shown immense potential in her recitals under the banner of Kalasagaram which has been promoting the local talent of Hyderabad regularly. Vasantha has won several prizes in various music competitions along with the CCRT Scholarship.Having a rich voice, Vasantha Subbalakshmi began her recital withSaranga VarnamandVallabha NayakasyainBegadain Rupakam was steadily rendered with briskswarakalpana. Darbar was a good choice to come next andAparadhamuluof Thyagaraja was thekrithi.Thodi,which came too early in the concert, was the raga chosen by Vasantha for an elaboration and was dealt mechanically and in a brief way.Thekrithiof Syama SastryKarunanidhi ilalointhisra nadaiwas very apt and thekalpramanawas maintained steadily with interestingswaracombinations and mostly complex calculations which were a bit overdone.Vallinayakain Shanmukhapriya was rendered soberly.ParvathikumaraminNatakuranjiwas rendered with goodraga bhavam. The main attraction of the concert wasPoorvikalyaniwherein Subbalakshmi tried her best to give theraga bhavam. The important observation one has to make is that the younger generation has to strictly listen to the concerts rendered by experts.Today&#8217;s performers are missing the essence of theragamwhile rendering their performance. It is not only the duty of the performer but also the guru&#8217;s responsibility to train the students in the traditional way.Vasantha is no exception and has fallen prey to the fixed calculations rather thanmanodharma sangeetham. Thekrithi,Meenakshi Me Mudham DehiinAdi Vilambam,was neatly and steadily rendered. Her neraval, though immature, was appreciable. Pavan on the violin was sober butcareless. At times, he missed the calculation. Srinivasan on the mridangam, a seniorvidwan, lent decent support and lifted the concert with his excellent following. HisTaniinAdi vilambamfor fourakshara&#8217;s eduppuwas impressive.Vasantha concluded her recital withNaadatanumanishamin Chittaranjani, Poorandaradasa&#8217;sTamburimeetidhavain Sindhubhairavi and Dhanasri&#8217;sThillana.Vasantha showed a lot of promise in her performance. She can be a good performer in the long run. She has to build on her repertoire and also listen to classical music sung by the great masters so that she develops a good taste of music.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/23/stories/2009012350580300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/01/23/images/2009012350580301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVasantha Subbalakshmi
p14
ss.