(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSticking to classical notes
p3
sVnews
p4
VMalladi Suri Babu&#8217;s concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram was a reminder of chaste classical music of yesteryears. Devoid of mannerisms and theatricals it was a presentation of uncorrupted concert based on the conventional format.The strong point in Suri Babu&#8217;s music is his faultless and incorruptible and precise addiction tosruti, which by itself made the concert tuneful and filling. His alignment, particularly atthra shadjamwas immaculate; with similar assistance on the sruti by Dwaram Sathyanaraya on the violin and D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam, the trio made a perfect team. Music concerts may indeed get a tang of tedium if they tend to be without some sparkle; it was so at moments in Suri Babu&#8217;s singing.A couple of items running in madhyamakala with the inclusion of fast movingsangathisandswarakalpanawould have made the concert even more attractive. His alignment with the sruti may be good but to exploit it to the hilt was not so good.Incidentally, Suri Babu is the father of the famous singers, Malladi Brothers. Starting withnatakuranji varnam, the change over to the uncommon krithiRanganathudein Devagandhari was an unexpected but unique endeavour.The elaboratealapanaof Poorvikalyani with fascinating decoration kept the audience attentive. The song Paripoorna kamawent off very well, but was not in equation with the longalapana; a heavierkrithiinmishra chapuperhaps would have been more appropriate.O rajivakshain Arabhi was a welcome change.Padaviniin Salaga Bhairavi from the archives was winning. Shakarabharana occupied the centrestage.Thealapanawas impressive but not with much of innovation; it was a routine rendering; so was the songEndukukupeddlavale.A shortvirutham, akrithiof Annamacharya brought the concert to conclusion. Hailing from the family of Dwaram, Sathyanarayana was helpful, coordinative and pleasing in his accompaniment on the violin, while D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam was slightly out of form.Kishna Prakash on the kanjira was out of tune quite often although in general he was acceptable. The concert was poorly attended perhaps due to the weather.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/09/stories/2008050950650300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.