(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA wholesome treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVINisha Rajagopal presented a wholesome vocal concert under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts at Nani Palkhiwala Hall, Coimbatore. A scion of a musically eminent family, and a disciple of great stalwarts of Carnatic music, she has imbibed all the skills needed to make a concert fulfilling. Except for an occasional smile of appreciation to the accompanying artistes, Nisha was a picture of poise. She never made an attempt to impress, but impress she did with a fare that had taste, variety and novelty. It was not a concert one will keep talking about but would like to listen to again and again.Nisha  began with the delectable "Neranammithini."  Dikshitar's "Gajananayutham Ganeshwaram'' (Chakravaham) and Tygaraja's "Orajupu Juchedhi Nyaayamaa'' (Kannada Gowla) followed briskly.Chaste SaveriSaveri was delineated in chaste style, bringing out the essence of the raga and letting the listeners soak in the melody of the voice that blended with the pleasurable prayogas."Velaiyaa, Dhayavillaiyaa," the carefully worded sahitya by Koteeswara Iyer was a pleasant surprise. After a quick ``Ardhanaareeshwaram'' (Kumudhakriya), Nisha  presented the devout kriti by Tyagaraja, "Enthani Ne Varninthunu." The exquisite neraval for "Kanulaara Sevinchi'' brought out Tyagaraja's admiration for Sabhari's good fortune.While the main item "Mohana Rama'' by Tyagaraja was good enough, it did not impress as much as the other two major kritis. Perhaps Nisha should improve her stamina.The old favourites such as "Thaaye Tripura Sundari'' (Suddha Saveri), "Sevikka Vendumayya,'' "Jagajjanani Sukhapani" (Rathipathipriya), "Kande Naa Govindanaa'' (Chandrakauns) and "Kanne En Kanmaniye'' (Kurinji) were spread through the concert instead of being presented as `tukkadas'. Lalgudi Jayaraman's tillana in Maandu brought the concert to a sprightly finish.The poker-faced Sanjeev's nimble fingers performed magic on the violin that contributed significantly to boosting the overall effect of the concert. His delineation of Saveri, Mukhari and Mohanam deserves special appreciation.Thanjavur Kumar (mridangam) and Adambakkam Shankar (ghatam) played with gusto. The violin-ghatam combination was especially enjoyable.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/12/stories/2006051200110300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/12/images/2006051200110301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFULL OF POISE: Nisha Rajagoapal.  Photo: S. Siva Saravanan .
p14
ss.