(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPeek into Hindustani
p3
sVnews
p4
VTHE DOYENNE of Hindustani music Lakshmi Shanker, though living in the U.S. makes it a point to be in Chennai during the music season, year after year. Making use of her presence, Viswakala Sangama,  led by Pt. Janardhan Mitta, conducted a three-hour workshop at Kishore vihar, T. Nagar. The workshop, well attended by the local aficionados of Hindustani music proved an insightful experience.Lakshmiji began the workshop with a Guruvandana in Yamun, sketched the basic lines for understanding Hindustani music. She highlighted the distinctive features of the various Gharanas (Kirana, Jaipur, Agra, Gwalior, etc.) like the very slow vilambit in Kirana Gharana as opposed to the predominantly madhya laya compositions of Agra-Jaipur Gharana.Well trained in Carnatic system too, Lakshmiji compared the two systems, bringing out the key factors.  With the able support on the tabla by Rajesh Davale, Lakshmiji explained the tala aspects in the Hindustani system. Though brief, her lecture-demonstration of the various nomenclatures in Hindustani system  -   Drupad, khyal, Tumri, Gazal, Tarana, Hori and Tappa were handled expertly spoke volumes of her varied repertoire. She even taught the eager students a beautiful Tumri in Raag Desh.During the later half of the programme, Lakshmiji taught the various methods of practice. The Hindustani system which does not have a formalised methodology for initial practice (like the sarali, jantai, alankaram and stayi varisais in the Carnatic system), has techniques unique to each Guru, as per the guru-shishya parampara. Lakshmiji with her abundant expertise and knowledge presented a package that was much appreciated. Explaining the Ten different `Thats' of the Hindustani system, her demonstration of three different raags &#151;  Marwa, Sohani and Purvi, comprising the same notes but with different vadi and samvadi notes (i.e. the stress is on different notes) was brilliant and evidence to her knowledge. Blessed were the audience who learnt yet another Tulsi Bhajan in Misra Kafi. Lakshmiji concluded by presenting a beautiful piece in Kirvani.PUSHPA LAKSHMANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/01/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/01/28/stories/2005012802050300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/01/28/images/2005012802050301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLakshmi Shanker explaining a point.
p14
ss.