(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSleek, subtle, nuanced
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe secret of Sowmya's singing distinction lay in the way she directed her expressive instincts to contemporary needs as her Sri Krishna Gana Sabha recital revealed. The maturity of her exposition was locked in her voice that flowed with comfort and ease in negotiating depth. There was fullness of enchantment in the unfolding of her performing pattern with great discernment. Through the gentle power of her interpretation she conveyed the core of her intention.Sowmya's well-trained voice gave quick access to subtleties and nuances to portray a sleek picture of a raga. There was never a drop in her aim at excellence. She was generous in conferring tasteful facets of both ragas and kirtanas. Refinement is supreme in the scale of musical values. This aspect, judiciously embossed on the vinyasa of Bilahari, showcased her integrated creativity and classicism. The raga, compact in form and pretty in perspective, was in keeping with the tradition she is heir to. Not impulsive by any reckoning what formed the strength and sustenance of this process was her firm belief in the force of heritage guidelines that have stood her in good stead all these years.Wealth of sahityaThe delicately chiselled rendering of the sangati-rich &#8216;Dorakuna Ituvanti Seva' invited fond recollection long after the concert. It was aesthetically animated by the wealth of sahitya sentiment spotlighted in the niraval of the passage, &#8216;Ramabrahma Tanayudow.' It enjoyed a spray of Tyagaraja fragrance that sprang from a parampara stock and her pedigree training that have kept her clear of fissiparous values.Unlike performances in the genre of just listing songs, her programme was cast in concept and presentation meant for rasikas with fastidious expectations. It was in this mood that she chose the rakti raga Kanada. Sancharas sweetened the journey. Her probing insight into its emotional simplicity ran through the flexibly felicitous modulation, Kanada's endearing environment was pervasive at every level of the raga development.&#8216;Sukhi Evvaro' resonated with subtle play of light and shade in the articulation. This provided the finer points of her handling. The concert plan and execution were marked by scrupulous thoroughness and was a shining example of an experienced artist. Violin accompanist Embar Kannan was exceptional in providing deep delicacy. He made a spontaneous offer of his accompanying talent to mirror Sowmya's daintiness. His solo versions were sprinkled with passages of excellence.Neyvveli Narayanan (mridangam) scaled laya heights in the consummate command of his percussive patterns. The firm tone both while enriching songs and in the tani was the high water mark of Narayanan's playing. His partner on the ghatam was K.V. Gopalakrishnan.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/10/stories/2010091050920200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/10/images/2010091050920201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VS. Sowmya.
p14
ss.