(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA rich repertoire
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe father-son combination of flautists B.K. Ananthram and Amit Nadag dazzled in a flute duet at the Adarsh Bhavan, Malleshwaram. The concert was held during the two-day symposium, recitals and lec-dem on the flute, organised by the Vamshi Academi of Music Trust and Adarsha Bharatiya Samskrithika Samsad. Veteran flautists B. Shankara Rao, M.S. Srinivasamurthy, Raghavendra Rao, Sunder Rao, Dwaraki Krishnaswamy and Balakrishna Tantri were felicitated on the occasion.Ananthram and Amith displayed a remarkable maturity in the planning and execution of the concert.  Their rich manodharma blended well. Melody and mathematics were proportionate to each other. With these qualities pervading the concert, Bilahari took a formidable shape for a fine krithi "Toli janma". "Endaro mahanubhavulu" (Sri) was moving. Ranjani ("Durmarga chara") and Kapi ("Intha sowkhya") vouched for the flautists' musical repertoire. If Ananthram was profound in his delineations, Amith was promising in every aspect of Carnatic music. The concert was ornamented by a seasoned accompaniment provided by Charulatha Ramanujam (violin), V.S. Rajagopal (mridanga) and Vyasavitthala (khanjari).On the second day, it was the turn of a flautist-trio to regale the audience. L.V. Mukund, A. Chandan Kumar and V. Vamshidhar formed the trio. They handled their medium  with competence. They shone forth both individually and together, working out a well thought-out plan. Bhava, raga and laya glowed in their true colours. Supported by J. K. Sridhar (violin), B.K. Chandramowli (mridanga) and M. Gururaj (morsing), the trio delighted the rasikas with their meticulous artistry and talent.Bhairavi ata tala varna and "Vatapi Ganapathim bhaje" launched the recital on the right path of musical enjoyment. One wondered whether the rendition of "Endaro Mahanubhavulu" was necessary at all. Some other madhyama kala krithis could have been a welcome replacement. Raga Kalyani was drawn on a wide canvass by the trio. Ragaalapana was started by Chandankumar, Mukund took up the tana, and the pallavi line ("Taraka Brahma swaroopini tamarasa vilochani") was sung and demonstrated by Vamshidhar.All the three young flautists joined together in detailed treatment of the pallavi in the traditional format. It was beautified by a ragamalika swaras comprising Hindola and Kapi (Mukund), Ranjani and Behag (Chandan Kumar) and Revathi and Shivaranjini (Vamshidhar).M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/01/stories/2006090103750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/01/images/2006090103750301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN HARMONY  Ananthram and Amit Nadig dazzled in their flute performances
p14
ss.