(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSinger, song, scepticism
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe just concluded Programme of Experts Sessions during the 38th Music Conference of The Bangalore Gayana Samaja, with Mysore V. Subramanya as conference president, turned out to be an intellectual exercise, throwing light on the lesser-known aspects of Carnatic music and classical dance.What made the sessions warm and cordial were the interactive sessions that evolved naturally in most of the lec-dems infusing more life into the so-called "grammar classes". Surprisingly, huge crowds of all ages gathered on all days at the Samaja, so much so that every session was an extended one, the serious theme of the session Karnataka Vaggeyakara Vaibhava notwithstanding.Says S. R. Sitharam, Secretary, Gayana Samaja: "Our experts' sessions are a hit since 38 years, with overflowing halls during lecture-demonstrations. We have a thematic session planned every year. And this year as the State is already celebrating Suvarna Karnataka, we thought discussing KarnatakaVaggeyakaras would enhance the pride."Flagging off with Purandaradasa, the pitamaha of Carnatic music, the sessions went on to elaborate Mysore Sadashiva Rao, Muthaiah Bhagavatar, Veene Seshanna, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, Mysore Vasudevacharya and many otheraspects of music as aesthetics, lakshya and lakshana, Ganapathi in music, the grammar of laya and forms like pada and javali. Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan's elaboration of the Asthana Vidwan of Mysore Palace, Muthiah Bhagavatar, went on to describe the vaggeyakara as "one of the gems of the palace." Seshagopalan, a sishya of Shankara Shivan, the direct disciple of Muthiah Bhagavatar, explained the creative aspects andsignificance of the Bhagavatar's Pada Varnas ensconced in beauty. "The Khamach pada varna "Maate Malayudhwaja" was supreme in its grammatical melodic synchrony of raga and sahitya bhava," said Seshagopalan, highlighting theswaraksharas (where swara and sahitya sound the same) present in the varna."Ragas Hamsanandi and Karna Ranjani were popularised in those days by Muthiah Bhagavatar and there is a strong belief that he created them too, although some research is essential on these aspects," said Seshagopalan.It was the continuing session of Umayalapuram K. Sivaraman that finally brought Seshagopalan too on stage later for a melodic crescendo. Earlier, Sivaraman answered questions for about one-and-a-half-hours from the people gathered there. Technical aspects of laya-mohra, solkattu, korvais,aavartha suddha, aksharas - were demonstrated by the vidwan in informal explanations, weaving not just laya patterns, but also bright, breezy and jovial references that had the audience in splits.Laya patterns from arithmetic to geometrical progressions were demonstrated. "The varying speeds were as good as an endurance test to your tensile strength," commented Sivaraman. While answering a question on "accompaniment patterns for vilambakala kriti," the vidwan said: "This is a chapter byitself. It requires expertise to follow slow-paced kritis. In case of musicians like M.D. Ramanathan who have a slow-paced rendition, it is up to the skill of the mridangist to take the concert across with variations," he said even as he demonstrated some possible ways to a thundering response from the audience. Seshagopalan's rendition of several vilamba kritis, including the well-known Kambodhi piece "O Rangasayi" were enoughfor the maestros to prove their point. "In melodic mathematics, two + two is not 4, it has to be a little less or a little more to create a touch-and-go-effect for a laya dharma to be followed," said Sivaraman. "Even as you notice the musician giving a fading-out effect in his line, the mridangist has to siege the opportunity for highlighting his part," he said.But this is not just in slow-paced pieces, in the racy "Dharini Telusukonti" in Shuddasaveri, the cluster of step-down sangatis are nothing but a delight for providing variations to the kriti-splendour," he said.In the Pada and Javali session by Dr. Nagamani Srinath, the musician paid respect to the doyens of the forms Veena Dhanammal and her grand daughters, Brinda and Muktha and Bangalore Nagarathnamma who popularised the mood and thoughts of the musical variants decades ago. "Pada, originatedfrom the dance form, is a musical monologue, simple in structure with high literary and musical value," said Nagamani. Padas also constituted one of the angas of prabhanda that described the heroic qualities of the nayaka," she said. Prema bhakti and Sringara bhakti, the theme of nayaka-nayaki bhavabecame the basics of padas, padavarnas and javalis. The bhakthi aspect ran supreme in Jayadeva's Geetha Govinda and Narayana Thirthar's Krishna Leela Tharangini. The padas of Kshetragna extolled the greatness of the form in the most elaborate way and he is also called the father of pada, she said.The birth of Javaliwas in Mysore, which saw the emergence of many composers. There is a hero, heroine and a sakhi in a javali. "Javalis are composed in desya ragas such as Paras, Behag, Kapi, Khamach, HamirKalyani, Jhinjuti etc. Sangati variations are aplenty here, but decorative angas as chittaswaras are absent," said Nagamani. Amongst the prominent pieces that Nagamani took up for her demonstrations, composers Dharmapuri Subbarayar, Bellary Raja Rao, Patnam Subramanya Iyer, Pattabhiramaiyyar,Mysore Sadashiva Iyer and Swati Tirunaal were extolled.RANJANI GOVINDBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/01/stories/2006090103760300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/01/images/2006090103760301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHEALTHY DEBATE  The lecdem sessions were warm and cordial and evolved naturally
p14
ss.