(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSpotlight on nine composers
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANGuru-sishya Parampara, third and the last in the series, will take place at Vani Mahal on December 23, 10 a.m.Carnatic concert music is a rich, hoary blend of composition and improvisation. While manodharma sangitham reflects an artiste's creativity and individuality, the disciplined structure of the kriti is the mainstay from which filaments radiate to assume the vibrant forms of alapana, niraval and kalpanaswara.The second musical feature in the series organised by Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha and Mudhra and presented by Radha Bhaskar, was titled `Navarathnangal,' a tribute to nine great composers who have enriched south Indian classical music by a variety of compositional forms. The composers featured were Sangitha Pitamaha, Purandaradasa, the musical trinity Tyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar and Syama Sastri and other vaggeyakaras such as Gopalakrishna Bharati, Swati Tirunal, Patnam Subramanya Iyer, Koteeswara Iyer and Papanasam Sivan.The musicians who rendered the songs included Prema Rangarajan, Sriram Gangadharan, Mohan Santhanam, Lakshmi Rangarajan, Radha Bhaskar, Visalakshi Nityanand, Shreyas Narayanan, G. Srikanth and Uma Maheswaran, accompanied by R. Hemalatha on the violin and Ganapathy Raman on the mridangam.Radha Bhaskar's explanations offered an introductory note about the composers and an insight into the distinguishing aspects of their compositions.Wandering mendicantsThe Haridasas were wandering mendicants who spread the message of godhead and bhakti through namasankirtana and their own compositions known as devarnamas or dasarapadas. The most prolific among them was Purandaradasa who is believed to have composed about 475,000 pieces. `Yena Bharadeyo' (Saraswathi) and `Srikantha Yena Ishta' (Sriranjani) were evocatively rendered.The progression of sangatis in Tyagaraja's kritis was highlighted in `Teliyaleru Rama' (Dhenuka). A rare Manipravalam piece (sahitya combining Sanskrit, Tamil and Telugu) of Muthuswami Dikshitar, `Venkatachalapathe' (Kapi) was aired. Among the monumental oeuvres of Syama Sastri are the three swarajathis in Bhairavi, Thodi and Yadukulakhambodi. A sequence from the Thodi swarajathi `Rave Himagiri Kumari' captured the majestic gait.Gopalakrishna Bharati's songs project his fine feel for raga and rasa. Few rasikas are aware that he also composed Pancharatna kritis in Nattai, Gowlai, Arabhi, Varali and Sri.Radha Bhaskar made a specific mention of Uma Maheswaran's special efforts to propagate the ratnas through painstaking compilation and publication.Swati Tirunal's compositions, identifiable by multiple mudras including `Padmanabha' were illustrated through the Navaratri kriti in Bhairavi, `Janani Maamava' and the lovely Dhanasree tillana. The melodic conception of Patnam Subramania Iyer nurtured in the Tyagaraja sishya parampara was evidenced in `Inthakante' (Kannada) and `Marivere' (Lathangi).Bhakti-steeped lyricsKoteeswara Iyer is perhaps best known for his compositions illustrating the 72 melakarta ragas, each bearing the raga mudra, as in `Thandarul Aiyya' (Nasikabhushani). In his bhakti-steeped lyrics, the genius of Papanasam Sivan manifested itself in the uncovering of intriguing dimensions in the raga swaroopa. `Unnai Allaal' in Kalyani was a telling example.On a personal note, Radha Bhaskar thanked the artistes for their cooperation and for having taken the time and effort to participate in the presentation in the midst of their busy performing schedules.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122202150700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.