(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTreat for listeners
p3
sVnews
p4
VK.C. ASOKThe first phase of the Navarathri music festival ensured the participation of several distinguished Carnatic musicians from South India. In his inimitable style, Madurai T.N. Sesagopalan impressedrasikason the fifth day of the festival.Scintillating concertHis stupendousbrigha-ladensangatisthat zigzag within the framework of a raga have always amazedrasikas, and this time too it was no different. After attempting a briefsancharaof the Kanada raga, he started off with the popular `Mamavasada jananee... 'Alapanaof Sarasangi (Jaya jaya padmananabha... ), Hindolam (Padmanabha pahi... ), and Devagandhari (Ramarama pahi..) was a real treat for the ears. But even more thrilling was bhavapriya elaboration, which was followed by the composition, `Mamava sritha... 'The main `Janani mamava... ' in Bhairavi was preceded by stimulating delineations of Mohanam (`Paripahi... '), Nayaki (`Palayamam sree... '), and Hamsanandhi (`Pahi jagajanani... '), which were characteristic of his unique style.He was accompanied by the octogenarian mridangam player T. K. Moorthy and the young violinist S. R. Mahadeva Sarma.Noted vocalist, Sanjay Subramaniam's concert the previous day had `Bharathi mamava... ' in Todi as the main piece. Adhering to his puritan Carnatic tradition, he brought out theraga lakshanasof Reetigoula (`Paripalayamam... '), Sarasangi (`Jaya jaya padmanabha... ') Natakurunji (`Jagadeesha sarva... '), besides the main raga of the day. The accompaniment was provided by S. Varadarajan (violin) and K. Arun Prakash (mridangam) and Uduppi S. Sreedhar (ghatom).New kriti every yearThrissur V.R. Ramachandran performed on the third day of the festival to the accompaniment of M.A. Sundareshan on the violin , V. Raja Rao on the mridangam and R. Gopalakrishnan on the ghatom. `Devi Pavane... ' (Saveri) was the main piece for the evening. Some time before that, the vocalist sang thealapanaof Shankabharam (`Bhaktaparayana') for an unexpectedly long duration. The kriti `Sreepada varamu in Kappi was a new piece sung by Ramachandran."Every year, I include a kriti that I haven't sung at the mandapom before," said the vocalist who has been singing at the annual Navarathri festival since 1971. M.A. Sundareshan on the violin was outstanding and he pepped up the sonorous, fast recital by the singer.With devotionMalladi brothers (seniors), the musicians came all the way from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh to participate in the second day of the festival.The duo has been coming here for the Navarathri music festival for the past three years. The day was for Kalyani (Pahimam Sree Vageeswari... ) and the brothers, Suri Babu and Naryana Sarma, together gave an exhaustive elaboration of the raga.  S. R. Mahadeva Sarma in violin and R. Ananthakrishnan in mridangam admirably accompanied the singers.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/14/stories/2005101400910300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/14/images/2005101400910302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPAYING OBEISANCE: Thrissur V.R. Ramachandran were among the senior artiste who performed at the Navaratri Mandapom.
p14
ss.