(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGrooming for better days
p3
sVnews
p4
VPoornima Krishnan gave the vocal concert on the first day. Thyagaraju accompanied her on the violin and Vidya Sagar on the mridangam. Poornima&#8217;s voice and learning are good enough; the voice blends well with the sruti and can manipulate sharp and difficult curves. The failures, if any, are entirely due to the poorpadantharam(tutelage) and inadequate concert experience.The items selected were good but their presentation was juvenile, particularly in respect ofkalapramanam. The pace was droning and the thrill much desired. She commenced the concert with the varnam in kaanada, but in trying to change thenadai(a numerical jugglery); the item took a listless movement.Srimannarayanain bhupalam was loaded withbhava. The highlight of the concert was the alapana in lathangi followed by the krithi,marivere dikkevvaru. If her singing should be impressive, she should add some thrill to her version. Peri Thyagaraju was helpful but the accompaniment on the mridangam by Vidya Sagar was inadequate.The following day Maharajapuram Viswanathan sang with Thyagaraju on the violin and Vidya Sagar on the mridangam. Viswanathan hails from a reputed parmpara (lineage). There is easy flow of music, well disciplined by rhythm and reasonably good creativity He is endowed with rich voice like his father and hissruthi gnanamis excellent. However, in implicitly following his guru, his father, he seems to have got into a rigid confinement to the style and thus unable to think beyond. Yet another serious drawback is the disruptivekalapramanam(time measure). He has a tendency to race with, and between the items where there should serenity. Relaxed singing is a faculty which will be achieved with time.The initial items, varnam in kedragowla, andsri mahaganapathein naatai were presented with certain amount of apprehension but he settled down withra ra raghuveerain ataana. Chalakallada in arabhi wasa lahis guru. Kalyani was dwelt with in detail but he was in needless hurry resulting in annoying repetitions. Also, there was imbalance in the item; if the alapana took 20 minutes, the krithi ethvunnarea was completed in just three minutes.On the final day, Harish, a disciple of Vijay Shiva sang with confidence. He is still young and what he has achieved at this age is praiseworthy. He also comes from a distinguished parampara; the singing and the selection rendering remotely resemble the style of D. K. Jayaraman. While his manodharma sangitham is creditable, his alapana needs a little more imagination; it lacks design and direction. Take for instance the picture of kalyani which he sang at length. The sangathis in the alapana were too many, all in a confused state of insight and the final picture was one of na&#239;vet&#233;.But the complicated rhythmic complexity was overcome with adroitness. The other item that impressed wasranganaykamin the raga nayaki. On the violin was his sister Roopa Rajagopalan, who evidently is too familiar with the style and method of vocalist, with the result her playing sounded mechanical. The thrilling part of the concert was the mridangam input by Kumbakonam Swaminathan.All in all, the concerts were good from the point of view of the age and experience of the artists; with this background, they are bound to prove as good artists in time to come.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/29/stories/2008022950720300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.