(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VKindling the memory of Thyagaraja
p3
sVnews
p4
VSadguru Thyagaraja Utsav Samithi of Malkajgiri marked its second decennial celebrations with performances by some of the leading names in the music world. On the third day Hyderabad Brothers (D.Raghavachary and D. Seshachary) gave an impressive recital. They began with Sree Raga varnam and asaveri raramaintidaka was the next sounding monotonous. Kedaragowla was taken next for Tulasi bilva, a rare item of Thyagaraja.Vinarada Namanavi in Karnataka Deva gandhari was a fast number. Vagadeeswari came aptly at that point and the brothers rendered Paramathamudu in good ragabhavam. The main attraction was Kharaharapriya which the Brothers did justiceOn the fourth day Kanyakumari violin solo enthralled the rasikas with her melodious recital with rich quality.Kanyakumari never compromises with her own standards. Nyvelli Santhanam was the highlight of the fest. Santhanam who has understood the essence of Thyagaraja and his music, always gives his best in his concerts with a clarity in his diction and soothing ragabhavam are his strengths. The Sandhana was brilliant and the tani was superb.On the sixth day Manasani Prasad from Bengaluru came out neatly with her vocal performance with Durgabhavani on the violin and Satgurucharan on the mridangam. On the seventh day Srivalsan from Kerala gave a decent vocal concert. He began his recital with thyagaraja pancharathna Jagadanandakaraka in natai. Kanada was sung with good sense of the ragam for sukhievvaro. Venkatakrishna, a young violinist can raise to any occasion did extremely well in balancing the concert with his clean accompaniment.On the eighth day vaadyagosthi was a major attraction of the fest. Surya Deepti on the ganga jalatarang, Nagaraju on the flute, Narayananon the violin, Lalitha Krishna on the veena, Krishna Prakash and Kaliprasad on mridangam, Hanumanth Rao on ghatam, and P. Srinivasan on morsing. It was a real treat for the rasikas. On the ninth day Simhachala Sastry a seasoned harikatha exponent presented a composition about Thyagaraja.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/27/stories/2009022760560300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.