(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMaster voices
p3
sVnews
p4
VAn episode  of the programme &#8220;Chayan&#8221;  broadcast on All India Radio not long ago   was memorable for featuring recordings of enchantingly rendered khayals in raga Puriya Kalyan by the late Hirabai Barodekar of the Kirana gharana. Although\u000a this raga is considered to be of the hybrid kind, yet, Hirabai rendered it with utmost reposefulness and immense melodic charm.Daughter of the late Kirana doyen Ustad Abdul Karim Khan, she had her training at Lahore from her illustrious uncle the late Ustad Abdul Wahid Khan who was regarded as  a strict teacher and hard taskmaster. Endowed with a sonorous voice and calm temperament, she filled her recitals  with intense melodic appeal, besides impressing her audiences with her dignified appearance on the concert platforms. Her handling of  Puriya Kalyan was indeed remarkable, particularly the insertion of the note Pancham. Her highly reposeful alap-badhat of the slow tempo khayal and subsequent taans were in balanced proportions.Young Wasifuddin Dagar rendered an at-length alap-jod and an exquisitely rendered dhamar in the raga Miyan ki Malhar created by the legendary Miyan Tansen.  Shades of the ragas Kanada, Sarang and  Malhar were deployed with good musical insight. Some of the rhythmic variations in the dhamar composition were highly complex,  to which Mohan Shyam Sharma provided befitting accompaniment on the pakhawaj.The veteran vichitra veena player, Ramesh Prem, gave a superb rendition in the morning time melody of raga Nat Bhairav which impressed for his excellent command over his instrument which is totally devoid of frets. His interpretation of the raga was indeed highly scholarly. The leisurely alap-jod was followed by a charmingly rendered composition in a mid-tempo Rupak tala, the  seven beat time cycle.Another noteworthy broadcast was the vocal recital by Meenakshi Biswas on the National Programme of Music. She commenced her recital with raga  Yaman, which pleased in parts. One would have liked her to avoid continuing her recital in raga Kedar, which  is  derived from the same thaat or  genre as Yaman &#8212;  the Kalyan thaat.The late Pundit Gopal Singh, son of the late renowned pakhawaj maestro Pundit Parvat Singh of Gwalior Durbar, besides himself being a master percussionist, was also a well-known player of the guitar. In fact, this instrument was brought to the concert platform as a solo instrument by him during the early 1930s by adding some side strings. His rendering of the pentatonic raga Tilang with commendable accompaniment on the tabla by the late Pundit Prem Vallabh was a delightful piece of music.The Gandharva channel of Hindustani classical music on  World Space Radio featured a highly tuneful sitar recital in raga Deshi Todi by Pandit Ravi Shankar. His alap, particularly over the bass strings, and the  liltingly deployed jod-jhala which followed were a delight to the ears. The gat-todas in mid-tempo Rupak tala of seven beats  had several intricately permuted variations, probably with the tabla accompaniment by the late Ustad Allah Rakha.This piece of music seemed to be from the first LP which he recorded in Europe during the early 1950s.This was followed, also on WSR, with a robust rendering of khayals in raga Bairagi (corresponding with the Carnatic raga Revati) by Pandit Ajoy Chakravarty.The composition &#8220;Sur Surat Taal Laya&#8221; was rendered with gusto and seasoned musicianship. .
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/26/stories/2008092650430200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/26/images/2008092650430201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSoulfulSitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar.
p14
ss.