(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith a penchant for gimmicks
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANYoung Athira Krishna carries a lot of awards in her kitty&#151; Guinness World Record holder, Balasree Award and Musical Gem of India to name a few. Yet, none seemed to draw a crowd for her morning concert in the Yuva Utsav of Bharat Kalachar. A handful of people were her audience. Still  Athira played her role of the performer with complete enthusiasm.Between the Sriraga varnam and "Karpagame Kan Paarai" in Madhyamavati, Athira provided a variety fare. At no point did the young girl's energy sag. A fleeting sketch of Saraswati and GNB's fast moving "Saraswati Namostute" with a band of swaras were balanced by the `sowkyam' of "Akilandeswari" in Dwijawanti.Rare ragaAthira elaborated a raga, which turned out to be undecipherable because it had shades of Mayamalavagowla, Chakaravaham, Lalitha and so on but without any tangible identity.The mystery continued as Athira played a brisk composition and loaded it with exhaustive kalpanaswaras. On later enquiry, it was revealed to be Gurjari and the kriti was "Varaalandu Kommani" by Tyagaraja made known by Dr. S Ramanathan and now sung by Unnikrishnan in his concerts.Instrument players should educate the listeners (even if they are a few) on such uncommon compositions in unusual ragas. The main one, fortunately was the well known Mohanam and the equally popular "Nannu Paalimpa" of Tyagaraja was her choice.Athira's expertise on playing the violin  is remarkable, no doubt. The problem with such talented persons is that they try to go overboard on their ability that it almost becomes a disadvantage.The sonorous and soul stirring passages were transient while the spring board gymnastics and shrieking excursions of upper registers were dominating. The kalpanaswaras beyond a limit went like torrential downpour of syllables sans aesthetics. Athira has a promising future which she should carefully plan by adhering to tradition, clarity and character.The final segment of the concert included the usual pieces in Behag, Sindubairavi and Revati. Srirangarajapuram J. Ganesh on the mridangam was true to his percussive support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100602130600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100602130601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAthira Krishna.
p14
ss.