(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA heady mix
p3
sVnews
p4
VThrow in some mellow notes of Carnatic music and Buddhist chants. Add a dollop of Western percussion. Get Yotam Agham to blend all these, and the result is the EarthSync Festival.Yotam and his team have been up all night practising, but are back for practice when I visit them. I am there to see how Tamil folk arts such aspuliveshamandmaghudaattamfit in.The media co-ordinator explains why they have included Indian folk arts. &#8220;Yotam, together with the production team, conceptualises the programme. Yotam loves Indian folk music. Sadly even in villages, where folk arts originated, most people only tune into film music. So EarthSync wanted to include folk music to showcase the beauty of these forms of music.The folk artistes are happy performing for EarthSync, because no one in the team is given more importance than another. It&#8217;s very democratic. They also perform before a huge city audience.&#8221;Yotam is busy overseeing arrangements and does not have much time for an extended conversation. He is from Israel, but is Chennai based. His children go to school here, although he himself is often on travel.Asaf, the audio engineer, is also from Israel, but is now stationed at Auroville, Pondicherry. Zohar Fresco, who plays frame drums, teaches music in Jerusalem.He first came to Chennai six years ago. He attended all the concerts in the Music Academy, and came to love Carnatic music.&#8220;When EarthSync told me they were going to perform in India and asked me if I would like to play in their programme, I asked them which city they were going to. When they said Chennai, I jumped at the opportunity. There are a lot of similarities between Middle Eastern music and Indian classical music. Lots of improvisation in both. I see some similarities in rhythm too. Oh, and I love Indian food,&#8221; Zohar says, looking longingly in the direction of the caterers, who have arrived with lunch for the artistes. Time for me to leave.The console with 24 faders makes access to inputs easy. The split fader banking feature makes it possible for multiple operators to work independently on the same console. Access to inputs, outputs, snapshots, plug-ins, is available at the push of a button.There are eight assignable output meters, which display aux, stereo matrix, mono matrix, and subgroup output levels.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/22/stories/2008022251230200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.