(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn tune with the Beloved
p3
sVnews
p4
VSUBHRA MAZUMDARThe fast growing acceptance of Sufi music as a concert hall performance took on a novel stance when the American interest in this musical form was made visible at a talk-cum-live musical evening hosted by Span Magazine in New Delhi. The Fulbright scholar Christopher Holland, who has made this topic the subject of his research, began the evening by sharing his early association with the music through a cassette of numbers by the late Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. Even though the verse was unfamiliar, he was drawn to its musical ecstasy, and it generated within him a desire to explore the genre more closely.His current work in India has given him an opportunity to hear live sessions of qawwali presentations at shrines and concerts, including the famed urs at Gulbarga, enriching the Sufi experience into an interest that has now travelled beyond Indian shores.In addition to the interest angle and Sufi music, audiences were entertained to a Sufi-based sitar recital by Ustad Shujaat Khan. His tabla accompanist Sandeep Das of the Benaras gharana, who has been under the tutelage of Pandit Kishan Maharaj, gave the recital added zing and rhythmic magic. Clarifying the style of his concert for the evening, Shujaat Khan classified his rendition of Sufi music on the sitar as a capsule of playing the classical form with the qawwali form.This clever juxtaposition of the folk and the formal was skilfully handled by the ustad, creating a pleasant mixture of resonating musical sounds that would appeal to the uninitiated listener and also create interest in its compositional flare among the classically oriented adherents.The combination called for astute judgment and playing expertise, and the rendition did justice to both these requirements. Only an artiste who is adept at the classical and has an open approach to other genres could have maintained audience interest through the session.Besides, the gayaki ang of the sitar gharana to which the artist adheres gave him the comfort to  blend the discipline of classical play with the emotional abandon of the Sufi qawwal. Thetaan avritsthat were interspersed with the rendition displayed a fine sense oflayakari, evident from the fact that the artiste did not resort to the cover of tihai rounds to balance the rhythm into the structure of the tala.Another innovative angle was his vocalisation of popular Khusrau verses, making the sitar sound as an accompanying instrument rather than the concert mainstay. The compositional flair, complete with masterful touches of layakari and gayaki, proved to be interesting. What one wished for in between were a few soft touches, stretches of silent contemplation, when the sounds were allowed to wander across the senses and the mind left to soak in the intense musicality of the evening.Also, the continuous repetition of the introductory line of the qawwali seemed a bit tacky after a while. But it certainly opened up possibilities of variables and combinations of popular forms like the Sufi qawwali, a genre that had once been associated with the birth of the drut khayal.Qawwali soireeFollowing the instrumental presentation was the traditional qawwali soiree of Meraj Ahmed Nizami from the dargah of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. The septuagenarian had a wide repertoire of numbers for his audience. The learned artist did well to introduce his style with explanations aboutriwayyi,zikrand the like. His Bulle Shah numbers and the Basant Bahar composition by Khusrau were the highlights of his performance.The concluding passage on Mast Qalandar and the saint Jhulelal, though slightly jaded, managed to replicate in his concert audience the gusto that grips gatherings at shrines during traditional performances.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072101110200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072101110201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFLAIR IN FLOW Shujaat Khan.
p14
ss.