(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMellifluous recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VA kashavani Sangeet Sammelan is a unique event where in concerts of eminent artistes are held throughout the country on the same day in major cities before an invited audience every year. This year, AIR, Hyderabad organised three concerts at Sri Thyagaraya Gana Sabha recently. The first concert was a Carnatic flute recital by Thiruvarur S.Swaminathan in the company of Nagai Sriram on violin, K.R.Ganesh on mridangam, B.Rajashekar on morsing. The concert began with G ajanatham in Chakrawakam with crispy swaram. Sri Narada in Kanada, a classy item was rendered with rich raga bhavam. Marivere in Ananda Bhairavi was rich in its presentation with a steady kalapramanam. Kalyani was chosen for detailed raga and the artiste explored it nicely in the stipulated time for Ee tavuna ra with neraval and manodharma swaram in correct proportion. Sriram supported the flautist and his contribution was commendable. The percussion duo came very cleanly in their accompaniment and their short tani in Adi sounded good.A treat to watchThe second concert was a layavinyasam by the veteran thavil vidwans Kovilur K.V.Palanivel from Chennai along with A.S.Murali on the ghatam and K.R.Ganesh on mridangam and Kota Atchi Babu on the clarionet. Palanivel took a lead in Adi talam and explored the talam. His korvai were commendable .The other percussion vidwans were competent and gave fitting replies. The second tala he chose was in Misrachapu. He maintained a steady laya with creative kannaku.Pleasant renditionThe final concert of the day was a Hindustani recital from Chandrashekar Vaze with Rajendra Antarkar on tabla and Srinivas Acharya on the harmonium. Chandrashekar, born in a family of musicians had his initial training from his maternal uncle Pendse and his father Pt.Raghunath Vaze.Later he took training from the well known singer Pt. Firoz Dastur. He has excellent tabla skills which reflected in his concert. His rich sruthi and good layakari with crystal clear birkas was the hallmark of the concert. He first began with Raag Puriyakayan set to taal. Raag Madhukhons was next one in which the artiste concentrated on the melody part of the ragam.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/15/stories/2010101550630300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.