(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPower of three
p3
sVnews
p4
VSharada Bhaktha Mandali conducted a three-day music fest showcasing the local talents from Hyderabad at Andavan Ashram, Maredpally.The fest featured Neeta Chandrashekar on the first day. Neeta, a talented vocalist working as a music lecturer in Telugu University, has learnt from legendry musicians like Pinakapani and Nedunuri. She possesses the truly traditional style of her gurus, and gave a &#8216;sampradayak&#8217; concer. Neeta&#8217;s concert includedSri Vignarajam Bhajeham, followed by a soothing Kanthamani delineation of the raga forPalinchavoin adi with brisk swaram. The major attraction was a detailed Bhairavi, wherein she brought her knowledge and displayed a neat ragam forBala Gopalawith good neraval. Dinakar supported her on the violin and Jaya Bhasker did very well on the mridangam.Vardhani&#8217;s highly knowledgeble recital was the highlight of the second day. Vardhini, a highly talented vocalist from Hyderabad, has good technical expertise in music and has a rich voice with brilliant laya. She opened her concert with Kalyani atatalam varnam.Here she sung the varnam in three speeds with ease and clarity, which set the tempo for the concert.Ganapathein Janaranjani of Muthaih Bhagavatar was neatly sung with swaram before moving toEdayagathiin Chela natai, a rare one. Chayaranjani, a rare ragam, was taken for detailed expansion and Vardhini showed great maturity in presenting it.Nee Valayache, a krithi of the great GNB, was sung with good aesthetics. Saveri was next to come for a detailed version for a Tamil compositionThai Nee Maruvaof Shivan. The main attraction of the concert was Poorvikalyani. Here the ragam contained all the ingredients and the phrases of the jeeva swarams was intact throughout, giving scope to a beautiful essay of it. Syamasastry&#8217;sNinnu Vina, a viloma chapu krithi in misrachapu, was a treat for the rasikas with good neraval and swaraprastarams in it.The third day featured a melodious flute recital by the young Swaroop from Chennai.A disciple of N. Ramani, Swaroop presented an traditional concert beginning with Kalyani varnam in adi in a shaky way. Swaroop needs to put in more effort before presenting a concert.However, his concert, which was a maiden concert in Hyderabad, showed lot of promise.Mahaganapathiin Nattai was neatly presented followed by Kapi ragam. His essay of the ragam was impressive forNevalla Gunadoshamuof Thyagaraja with lilting swaram.Shanmukhapriya was taken for neat expansion but with shortcomings here and there. Mohana was next and Swaroop showed good signs of improvement in his ragam for Evarura in misrachapu with interesting swaram. The main attraction was Khamas, where he playedBrochevaruwith brisk swarakalpana.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/10/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/10/23/stories/2009102350370300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/10/23/images/2009102350370302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.