(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAttractive rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.N.S Murali gave a vocal recital on Saturday at a private residence in Saraswatipuram. The concert sponsored by Narayana Murthy was organised by Shruthimanjari Foundation. Murali was ably supported on the violin by Veena Suresh and P.S. Sridhar on the mridanga. Murali began with "Sarasijanabha", the majestic atta tala varna in Kambodhi. He then sang "Vaaranavadanam", a composition of Padmacharan in Hamsadhwani, aditala. Murali adorned the piece with swaras at the pallavi. His manner of weaving various swara patterns within the span of one aavartana attractive. But an elaborate muktaaya for this initial item made it top-heavy.The next item was Tyagaraja's Sriranjani Kriti, "Sogasuga mrudanga" with swara embellishment. Murali took up Bhairavi for an elaborate treatment. The raga alapane was replete with the ragabhava. He explored the raga from the mandra shadja to the tara madhyama. Veena followed him faithfully on the violin. Even as Murali was elaborating the raga, one was reminded of Syama Sastri's swarajati, "Kamakshi" in mishra chaputala. And he sang just that piece! He also wisely avoided the temptation of singing swaras for this piece. This item was followed by a brisk and lilting "Shri Chamundeshwari" of Mysore Vasudevachar in Bilahari. A raga tana pallavi in Shanmukhapriya formed the main item of the concert.The tana was neatly rendered. The pallavi "Nee padamule gatiyeni nammiti neelamegha shyamakrishna" was set to khanda triputa tala with the edupu on the second beat. The padagarbha spanned six aksharakaalas while the usual practice is to have an odd number of aksharas. After a detailed rendering of the pallavi in trikala, he sang the swaraprastara in two kalas. Veena's accompaniment was complimentary and enriching. Sridhar's handling of the mridanga was excellent, marked with a judicious use of gentle fingering and firm strokes. His playing of the tani was exemplary. Murali then sang Kanakadasara devaranama, "Nanninda naane janisi" in Vaagadhishvari. Next came a tillana in Sindhubhairavi, a composition of R.K. Padmanabha who is Murali's guru. The concert was wound up with Vande mataram. Murali's concert showed good planning in the choice of raga and tala so as to provide variety and avoid monotony.Notable points in his voice are good sruti alignment and a commendable reach in the mandra sthayi. But his voice faced a few problems in the tara sthayi, especially when he attempted daatu prayogas. This led to some slippages of swara sthanas. Veena's accompaniment was fulfilling. Her playing however seemed to lack sufficient punch. There is no need to say more about Sridhar except that it will be a pleasure to hear him more on concert stages. Overall a very pleasurable experience.SHRIKAANTH K. MURTHYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/14/stories/2006071402620300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.