(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCarnatic music at its best
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHACelebrating the rich tradition of Carnatic classical music, Banyan Tree in association with B.G. India presented their latest venture, Dakshinayan at the FICCI auditorium this past week. A treat of Carnatic music, Dakshinayan featured Bombay Jayashri's vocal, Vidwan Vikku Vinayakram's percussion ensemble and a mandolin recital by the celebrated U. Srinivas and U. Rajesh.Dakshinayan took a flying start with the vocal recital of Bombay Jayashri. One of the most sought after Carnatic vocalists, Jayashri belongs to the fourth generation of a reputed musicians' family. Groomed under the guidance of Lalgudi G. Jayramanan and T.R. Balamani, Jayashri gradually evolved a distinct style of her own, which is known for its depth and meditative quality. Her ethereal music seeps into the heart of rasikas. Hindustani music training has enhanced her classical renderings with an aura ofchaindaari(reposefulness). Instead of the electronic sruti box normally seen and heard at Carnatic music concerts, a pair of finely tuned tanpuras give her concerts a distinctly different flavour.Resonant voiceGifted with a sweet and resonant voice, she brings alive the compositions of the saint composers with scintillating swaraprastaras and fabulous flow of kalpanaswaras that are indicative of her manodharma and talent. The slow and introspective alapana extracts the raga bhava with considerable ease, but this evening she looked in a hurry to wind up her recital with just four pieces because there were two more artistes to perform after her. She opened her concert with a Swati Tirunal kriti, "Deve kalayami te... " in raga Poorvi Kalyani. A short alap in raga Abhogi followed by a Tamil pada came next. Arguably the piece de resistance of the evening was "Akhilandeshwari... " in raga Dwijawanti (Hindustani Jaijaivanti).She chose ragas that were common to Hindustani and Carnatic music for the benefit of the larger audience.Jayashri concluded her concert with the Meera bhajan "Hari tum haro jana ki bhir" immortalised by M.S. Subbulakshmi. The tenderness with which she treated the lyrics was further enhanced by the pathos of raga Darbari that echoed the devotional and emotional content of the composition. Mysore Shrikant on the violin and Poongulul Subramaniam on the mridangam provided excellent accompaniment for her melodious recital. Despite the glimpses of her deep emotional commitment and her usual introspective singing, she could not fully satisfy her fans because of the time constraint.Percussion ensembleVikku Vinayakram's ghatam has brought him international fame over the years. Although trained in the orthodox tradition of this ancient Indian instrument, he has played in a number of experimental and avant-garde ensembles across the world. Best known for his tenure in Shakti, a ground breaking acoustic Jazz/Indian fusion band with guitarist John Mclaughlin, violinist L. Shankar and tabla exponent Zakir Hussain, he has come up with his own percussion ensemble now. He presented a composition titled `Panch Mahabhoot' along with Vidwan Vibhuti Vinayak on the ghatam, N. Ramkrishnan on the mridangam, A. Ganesh on the morshunkh, S. Selva Ganesh on the kanjira, D.V. Venkatsubramaniyam on the gottu vadyam, along with melodious vocal support by the talented  Mahesh Vinayakram that made all the difference.Mandolin recitalU. Srinivas, popularly known as Mandolin Srinivas, played along with his younger brother U. Rajesh. Opening his mandolin recital with Muttuswami Dikshitar's "Mahaganapati... " composed in the raga Nat Narayani, set to Adi tala, he won the hearts of rasikas from the very beginning. Next came a Tyagaraja kriti in the raga Kannada Gaula set to Adi tala  Then he went on to perform the detailed ragam-taanam-pallavi in raga Sarasangi that gradually turned into a ragamalika. S.D. Shridhar on the violin, Murug Bhupathi on the mridangam and S.V. Ramani on the ghatam gave him commendable support. The glides of Srinivas' mandolin, traversing nearly four octaves with subtle deflections and suave certaintywere sheer delight.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081101410200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/11/images/2006081101410203.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBombay Jayashri thrilled the audienceswith their performances at Dakshinayan in New Delhi.
p14
ss.