(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPerfect coordination
p3
sVnews
p4
VJAYARAMAN VMridangam is the only percussion instrument that was mentioned by Tyagaraja though he later allowed the  entry of ghanjira, which used to be played by Chittore Radhakrishna Iyer,  during the Ekadashi bhajanas, regularly organised by the bard from Thiruvarur.The saint emphasises the vital role of a well-tuned mridangam in ennobling Carnatic music in his `Sogasuga mridanga thalamu' in raga Sree Ranjini. Naturally, when a mridangam maestro like  Karaikudi. R. Mani performs,  rasikas throng that venue, as it happened during Sree Krishna Jayanti celebrations at Bhaktha Meera Temple in Vyttila, Kochi.Paying homage to Palakkad Mani Iyer at the Kerala Fine Arts Society of Kochi, Semmangudi Sreenivasa Iyer had once said that when Mani Iyer started playing the `Thani,' those who had strayed out of the hall could be seen rushing back to their seats.  It was the same  with Karaikudi Mani as well.Mutual understandingKaraikudi Mani played for T.M. Krishna, one of the prominent youngvidwansof the day, in such a way that there was no attempt to overshadow him at any point of the concert.  Krishna began with the varnam in Begada (`Inthachalamu') by Veena Kuppaier.Then came `Deva Deva Kalayami' by Swati Tirunal in Mayamalava gowla, which was laced with a superb  niraval. Mukhari emerged in all its stateliness and tagged to it was an Ashtapadi, suiting the serene and cosy atmosphere of the temple.Musicologist Dr. P.Sambamoorthy points out that Tyagaraja coined many fascinating  ragas by drawing inspiration from a divine text called `Swaraarnavam,' which is believed to have been received from Narada in a dream.  Jayanthasena of the Kharaharapriya fold is one of them.In `Vinathaa suthavaahana,' Tyagabrahmam condemns those who try to belittle different religious beliefs. Krishna's rendition emphasised  the dainty diction, lilting score and the lofty message inherent in it. With the arrival of Saveri, the concert reached its high point with the composition `Sree Rajagopalabala,' composed by Deekshithar on the deity of Mannargudi. After a compact niraval and swaras, the much-awaited percussion ensemble began.Inimitable techniqueKaraikudi Mani unfolded   his inimitable technique by  varying and combining the unit beats. The distinct  style of Mani was evident during his impromptu improvisations through the cholkkettu, Parans, Korva and Mohra.  Another feature was the controlled use of the Ghumki on the left- hand side of the instrument merging with the `Sunaadam' from the right.V. Suresh, on the ghatom, showed how to make it a melodious instrument with subtle tonal variations. K.V. Ramanujarlu was on the violin.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092200640200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092200640201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSYNCHRONISED: Karaikudi Mani, left, and T.M. Krishna were tuned to each other.
p14
ss.