(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA doctor's flair  for music
p3
sVnews
p4
VTONAL MELODY and effortless rendition were the hallmarks of Dr. Muralidhar Kanchi 's concert in Mysore. The artiste, in spite of his busy schedule at the Narayana Hridayalaya, Bangalore, seems to have spent enough time on his music too. The concert took off well after the graceful raga alapana of Madhyamavati ("Ramakthasuda" of Tyagaraja) when compared to his earlier renditions of raga Natai ("Shaktiganapatim"), the Goula composition "Tyagaraja Palaya" of Dixitar, and the Begade composition "Nee Verakula Dhanamu".The artiste didn't delve deep into the ragas, which disappointed the audience. Nevertheless, nerval and svara kalpana in some of the selected compositions were agile and crisp. The semi-classical approach without adequate inputs was significant. The footprints of his guru Voleti Venkatesvarulu, a popular vocalist from Andhra Pradesh, was however visible in some of the stayi bhavas in Muralidhar's concert.However, in a time and age when music therapy is the in thing, Dr. Muralidhar could be an asset to the medical field.Laudable EffortThe two-day seminar organised by Sri Lalithakala Academy Foundation, with assistance from Sangeetha Natak Academy, New Delhi, held at Bidaram Prasanna Sitarama Mandira, Mysore, created quite a buzz. The programme, which was aimed at popularising the compositions of yesteryear musicians, seemed to have achieved its goal with well-planned lecture demonstrations. The Quiz, a part of this seminar, threw light on the contributions of the great maestros of 18th and 19th Centuries &#151;  Mysore Sadasiva Rayaru, Veene Seshanna, Bidram Krishnappa and Mysore Chowdaiah. Sangeetha Kalanidhi R.K Srikantan headed the seminar which featured lecture demonstrations and vocal concerts dedicated to the legendary maestros of Mysore. Dr. C.A. Sridhar of the University College of Fine Arts, Mysore, well-known musicologist Vidwan V. Nanjundaswamy and Dr. Nagalakshmi Suryanarayana enlightened the audience on the life and compositions of these maestros. R.K. Srikantan spoke about Bidaram Krishnappa's untiring efforts to lay a foundation  to the music activities of Mysore.C.A. Sridhar's lecture on Mysore Chowdiah was quite informative where he also spoke about the life and the achievements of this doyen of violin. In fact, he described Chowdiah as a gem of music, who had robust princely looks. He then went on to add that there are many memorials dedicated to this artiste, but not many are aware of his struggles and contribution to the world of music.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/01/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/01/28/stories/2005012802280200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/01/28/images/2005012802280201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMuralidhar Kanchi's concert was marked by crisp nerval and swara kalpana.
p14
ss.