(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA variety music festival
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. SURYA RAOThe 14th anniversary of Sri Sadguru Sangeeta Sabha of Vijayawada presented a variety music festival at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram. The inaugural meeting was presided by B.V.S. Prakash and the chief guest was R.C. Pramanik, commissioner of income tax. The highlight of the inaugural function was the felicitation to senior mridanga vidwan and reputed guru Mahadevu Lakshminarayana Raju, a staff artiste of Vijayawada Akashvani.  The Sabha conferred the title `Sangeeta Vidwanmani' on him. The music programmes took off to a good start with a melodious but brief veena concert by Pappu Sirisha, an upcoming young artiste. K. Anilkumar rendered adequate support on the mridangam. Next followed a thrilling instrumental ensemble composed and conducted by Lakshminarayana Raju. Different rhythmic patterns played with fine co-ordination marked the concert and the resounding climax drew great applause from the audience. The participants besides Lakshminarayana Raju were Ampolu Muralikrishna (violin), Manda Anantakrishna (flute), Ghantasala Satya Sayi (morsing), K. Sayi Giridhar (tabla) and M. Haribabu (dolu).  The major treat of the evening was preceded by a brief vocal concert by K.Yugandhar , a disciple of Vidwan Hari Sankara Sastri. The main concert by Vishnubhotla Sisters Saraswathi and Krishnaveni came as an excellent treat of melodious vocal rendered in traditional manner. The sisters started withVasanta varnamand followed withSri Mahaganapathimin Atana. As major items the siblings sangGhummaniyedi Sruthi(Annamayya keertana) in Poorvikalyani andPrakkala Nilabadiin Kharaharapriya. The alapana of Kharaharapriya was quite comprehensive. Able support came from Ampolu Muralikrishna on the violin, B.V.S. Prasad on mridangam and K. Ramakrishna on the ghatam.A group singing led by Popuri Gowrinath along with  Gayatri and Charumathi Pallavi combined well to render some rare keertanas of Tumu Narasimhadas, one of the pioneers of the keertana composition. The songs rendered excellently by the group were taken from Narasimha Das'sBhadradri Rama Prabhatha SevaandEkanta Seva.Folk artist felicitatedThe 80th birthday of `Kala Tapasvi' Karnati Lakshminarasiah was celebrated at the G.V.R. Government College of Music and Dance, Vijayawada. Karnati is a noted exponent of folk arts and a veteran stage actor with long association with many cultural organisations. He has also authored many books and articles on folk arts.  Eminent personalities from different fields felicitated Karnati.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/02/stories/2007030201140200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/02/images/2007030201140201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEXCELLENT TREAT The Vishnubhotla Sisters were at their best.
p14
ss.