(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCultured singing
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe tone and tenor was rich with a cultured style of singing. An air of absolute enjoyment strikes us as we tune in to Vaikom Jayachandran, live!The fare was varied as far as the kritis went and he established a standard of his own and if we were listening to a couple of songs, we would surely guess what the rest was going to be like.From Hamsadhwani to Sindhukannada ( Nanu Ganna talli&#8230;) to Reetigowla ( Paripalayamam, a Swati Tirunal composition) and to the center piece in Kalyani (Adi) Ninnu vina gati gana, the vocalist made a style statement that went across the entire repertoire, a la Sanjay Subramaniam! The traditional kritis were not distorted and neither did he resort to gimmicks. It was the establishment of a individualistic mode of presentation which had depth and melody but did not adhere to feeling like for instance the Sindhukannada where the lines Neevu brovakunte evaru brothuru which call for a plea but it sounded like a demand!The creative piece extolling Paramacharya in Nagaswaravali was beautiful. So was the Thyagaraja kriti Naada tanumanisham which was in every way a Chittaranjani. Be it a racy start or an all-enveloping preface (alapana) as in the Kalyani and a soft presentation thereafter keeping in mind the structure and mood of the raga, the musician was able to elicit the appreciation from everybody.His improvisations were like testimonials to his prowess with the medium. The diction was clear but for the harsh mridangam. To the mridangam artist, Rajasekhar's credit, it must be mentioned that left to himself (the taniavarthanam) he was bound to excel but as an accompanist he was loud and bossy. The ghatam by Tirucchi Murali on the other hand was a pleasure to hear. Madurai Balasubramanian on the violin was a gem.His follow of the alapana or the swarakalpana was superb. His bowing technique was delicate, oozed warmth and struck right at the heartstrings.The recital under the aegis of Sri Chandrasekharendra Sangeeta Educational Society was to mark the Jayanthi celebrations of Paramacharya of Kanchi peetam at Keyes High School.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/17/stories/2011061750550300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/17/images/2011061750550301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRich voice Vaikom Jayachandran enthralled with his rendition.
p14
ss.