(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVocal treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VCommemorating the jayanthi of  Thyagaraja, Visakha Music Academy featured aharikathaon thevaggeyakaraby noted Bhagavataar M.V. Simhachala Sastry of Guntur in Kalabharathi recently. Well accompanied on violin by S.L. Ganapathi of Srikakulam and the local artiste, S. Subrahmanyam on mridangam, Sastry regaled the houseful audience, which included many youth as well.The endowment of a sweet and sonorous voice which he cultivated well with systematic training in Carnatic vocal on one hand, and the capability of intertwining of his vast knowledge acquired through deep study of the traditional literature including the scriptures relevantly in hisharikathawith élan, proved to be the assets of the Bhagavataar Sastry. Thus, extensively quoting relevant aspects from the literature of the remote past till the present, Sastry like a scholar non-pareil, absorbingly dealt with the nature of theNaayikaorMadhurabhaktiof Thyagaraja as it gets revealed in most of his compositions and also the social reformer in him as well. Sastry also pointed out how even singers, whose mother tongue is Telugu, wrongly punctuate and commit mistakes in rendering some of his lyrics.TheNalinikanthi kriti Manavyaalakincharaadateis sung asManavi Aalakincharaadate, he observed pointing out many more of such instances.Silver jubilee celebrationsThe silver jubilee of Sangeetha Janakulam, a registered trust founded in 1979 to impart free coaching in vocal, veena, violin and mridangam besides Bhakti sangeetham, was celebrated last Saturday on a grand scale in Kalabharati. The function was presided over by the International Chairman of the World Teachers Trust, K. Parvathikumar. The rendering of about a dozen compositions of variousvaggeyakarasin group in perfect synchrony by Sangeetha, Sujatha, Gouri, Kanakalatha, Sridevi, Prasanthi, Venkatarao and Vamsi, trained under the able direction of the noted exponent of carnatic music, G. Sarada Subrahmanyam, marked the evening. G.V. Raghuram and M. Annapurna (violin), Lakshmi (veena), M. Sridhar (mridangam), Ramesh (tabla) and Anuradha (tambura) constituted the orchestra.A. RAMALINGA SASTRYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/27/stories/2005052701400200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.