(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDifferent strokes
p3
sVnews
p4
VShruthi and laya have a concrete representation in Carnatic music. The variety that pervades laya in this system of Indian music is vast and of great significance. Young mridangist H.S. Sudheendra has been spearheading the effort of popularising and culling out the subtleties of laya. In a programme presented at the Gokhale Institute of Public Affairs, N.R. Colony, for the Percussive Arts Centre, he led his team of young disciples to unveil the unexplored aspects of laya. Nitin, Amrit Nagasundar and Ranjani Venkatesh (all on the mridanga), S. Ashok and Hariharan of the Bangalore Brothers fame (khanjari and konnokol respectively), Phanindra Bhaskar (ghata), Bharadwaj Satawalli (morsing), Phaneendra (tabla) deftly supported by Deepa K. Murthy, B.K. Raghu, Sughosh Pavan and S. Aditya on violins gave a fine form and shape to Sudheendra's ideas on rhythm. Young Deepa as the lead violinist deserved a special mention.Totally four items were rendered. Ashwin Nayar, rendered an avadhana pallavi negotiating two different talas (khanda chapu and mishra jhampe accounting for 10 aksharas) and sang "Vandisuvudadiyali" and thrilled the rasikas by carrying out an admirable laya vinyasa (tani avartana) reciting the jathis. Avinash Krishna and Ashwin (double mridanga) exhibited their extraordinary sense of laya by rendering a short tani avartana for mishra triputa tala (11 aksharas).Bharadwaj Satawalli's laya artistry glowed when he held six morsing instruments arranged in a semi-circular manner conforming to the scale of Mohana raga and supported by a recorded sound track.His laya vinyasa was of a high standard. The technique of graha bedha was skillfully adapted to created the ragas such as Madhyamavathi, Hindola, Shuddha Saveri and Shuddha Dhanyasi.The rendition of Dikshitar's "Shamale Meenakshi" (Shankarabharana) was a delight. The composition comprising Charukeshi, Bahudari, Kapi and Revathi ragas and 3-4-5-7-9 laya patterns provided equal opportunity for all the members of the ensemble to demonstrate their artistry and talent. Needless to say, all of them reacted with a practiced precision. The delightful morning programme concluded with the popular pada "Bhagyada Lakshmi baaramma".Veteran vocalist T.S. Vasantha Madhavi has endeared herself to the lovers of music by holding a variety of programmes. In order to popularise and also acquaint the knowledge seekers with the importance and glory of the compositions of the late Maharaja Sri Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, she held a workshop and taught a few select krithis of the former King-Composer. The valedictory was held at Sri Vijaya Vinayaka temple, ITI layout and the participants of the workshop sang "Chintaya sada" (Sindhuramakriya), "Sri Ranganatha" (Kalyanavasantha), "Maha Tripurasundari" (Devagandhari), "Manyatam Manjula vagvilasa" (Kokilapriya), "Sri Jalandhara" (Gambheera Nata) and "Brahmanda Valaye" (Maand) in unison to the accompaniment of Prema Vivek (violin) and R.Prasad (mridanga).This was followed by the group rendition of Haridasa krithis in Taara-tamya paddhati.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042803180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.