(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPliable voice, brisk rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VT. Shyamsundar, who has earlier had a successful stint as a mridangam artiste, has now unearthed his skills as a vocalist. It is a rare instance of one having plunged into Carnatic music singing after having been a percussionist in the same style for over three 3 decades.Shyamsundar's vocal music compact disc has been released recently under the banner of Dhvani Audio, which is titled *Pravaham'. The benefit of having seasoned accompanists Usha Rajagopal (violin), Thrissur C. Narendran (mridangam) and N. Govindarajan (ghatam) makes it easy sailing for the singer.Shyamsundar has a pliable voice which is devoid of harshness and that which is ear-friendly. Obeisance to Ganesha is through the opening number which is a Muthuswami Dikshitar kriti in Natanarayani. This song, *Mahaganapathe' has a chittaswara passage rendered which happily conforms to the raga lakshana. “Vinatha Sutha Vaahana” (Jayanthasena - Tyagaraja) is the following composition. The patanthara and the “Porrutham” swaram employed during the solfa passages are both mirror images of the late D. K. Jayaraman's versions.The singer's vinyasa of Purvikalyani is meaningful and Nilakanta Sivan's popular creation, *Ananda Natamaduvar' follows in Rupaka talam. Syama Satri's masterpiece, “Nannubrovu” in Lalitha is painstakingly vocalised. In the charanam of this song the noun “Kaumari” is sung as “Gowmari” which sounds strange.A not too oft heard Patnam Subramania Iyer kriti, “Ithi Nyayama” in Malavi is a brisk rendition which is well sung.The central piece of this album is the Muthuswami Dikshitar kriti, “Sri Krishnam” on the Lord of Guruvayur in Thodi raga. The vocalist's essay of Thodi is built on time tested and listener familiar sancharas which is pleasing. Usha Rajagopal's raga alapana reveals her maturity and experience. The customary niraval and kalpanaswaras are rendered at “Shanka Chakra Gadha” in the charanam. In the lower speed swara singing Shyamsundar employs twice the the usage of ma, ga, sa, ga, ma as the closing notes before embarking on the sahitya “Shanka Chakra”. This could have been eschewed as it is not in keeping with the raga lakshana. The violinist wisely avoids this in her replies. The kuraippu swras and a refreshing korvai are professionally rendered which is followed by a crisp Thani Avarthanam by the percussionists.The dessert fare comprises of a Narayana Tirtha tarangam in Dwijavanti, a Tamizh song of Suraajananda very tastefully set to music in Behag by the late T. M. Tyagarajan and a Periazhwar lullaby in ragamalika which has been sung in Nilambari, Vasantha and Kuntalavarali.On the whole, this compact disc is a feather in his cap for T. Shyamsundar.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/04/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/04/11/stories/2008041151550400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.