(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VClassicism of Kathakali music
p3
sVnews
p4
VV. KALADHARANVedikaKathakali Padangal - KottayamKathakalKottackal Narayanan (CD)Rs. 100The progress  of Kerala's vocal music heritage is, for the most part, embedded in its classical performing arts like Krishnanaattam, Kathakali, Mohiniyattom and Thullal. Of them, the overall development of Kathakali was recognised as the most fabulous in the 20th century. The virtual integration of Kathakali music  -   vocal and instrumental  -   with the visual content underpinned the classical framework of this dance-theatre tradition.With the establishment of Kerala Kalamandalam, Kathakali music got systematised under the dynamic leadership of the late Kalamandalam Neelakandan Nambeesan. His last disciple Kottackal Narayanan carries on a  style of singing sans unnecessary frills and melodrama.The four plays from the Mahabharata  composed by Kottayam Thampuran are a challenge for Kathakali actors and for vocalists too. The singing of each  stanza in the plays like `Kalyanasaugandhikam' and `Kirmeeravadhom' demands the correct  pronunciation of the Sanskrit words and keen attention to the meaning of every line. When it comes to the rendition of the unusually slow  padams, Narayanan's voice is patient and  balanced. Narayanan'ssaareeramhas a metallic quality that pervades the whole unit of performance.Kathakali music cannot aspire to the richness and diversity of classical Carnatic Music. Yet the soul-stirring Kathakali padams can enchant listeners with its stress on literature and sentimental overtones. The CD under review is testimony to these merits unique toabhinayasangeeta. The first part of the CD begins with the emblematic vandanasloka, `Maathangaananam' in raga Kedaaragaulam. Its akaara-humming and the stress onjeevaswarasfind an indigenous flavour in the sphere of Kathakali music. All the slokams and the padams that follow except the last one are from the Saugandhikam play. Kottackal Narayanan's singing is based on the varying visual rhythms. Hence, we, the listeners, are lifted to a world of epic characters such as Panchaali, Bhima, Hanuman and Dharmapura. The padam, `Aarihavarunnu' and the preceding slokam in raga Madhymavathy  are an unusual treat to therasikas.In the second part, Narayanan has sung the stanzas and the padams from `Kirmeeravadhom' and `Bakavadhom,' evoking all the subtlebhavas. `Kashtamaho,' the padam of Krishna in `Kirmeeravadhom' and the two padams, `Kolahalamodu' and `Chentharbaana' in Bakavadhom convey the depth of classicism in Kathakali music. Like his guru, Narayanan has a nasal accent in singing that goes well with his chiselledbrigasand alluringgamakas. If one listens closely to the treatment of ragas like Sankarabharanam and Kamboji in the padams rendered, he/she can be convinced of the true identity of Kathakali music.`Vazhiyilninnupoka,' a padam in raga Kamboji (by Bhima to Hanuman) and `Bheethiyullilaruthottume,' (the padam by Hanuman to Bhima) in raga Sankarabharanam best illustrate the individuality of vocal music asvachikabhinayain Kathakali.While most of his colleagues in the field are experimenting with unfamiliar ragas and sophisticated modulations, Kottackal Narayanan is engaged in reinventing a great tradition armed with an understanding of the textual nuances, raga bhavas and a firm grip over the tempos. Through this CD he has proved that Kathakali music does have a life beyond trends and fashions.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/05/stories/2006050500520200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/05/images/2006050500520201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.