(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFeast after seven lean years
p3
sVnews
p4
VGIRISH S. PATTANASHETTIOrganising an event simultaneously at thirteen different venues is no joke. If the district administration had not taken keen interest and made various artists, writers and experts come together under a single forum, then probably the Dharwad Utsav 2006 would have ended up as just another government festival. But that did not happen. Instead all various stakeholders joined hands to make it a true people's festival.The enthusiasm of art and music lovers, those with a literary bent of mind, the active involvement of hundreds of artists off stage and the exuberant performances on stage proved that Dharwad still is the cultural capital of the state. Resuming after a gap of seven years, Dharwad Utsav was a big hit. And the response from the public was overwhelming. As one of the organisers put it, Dharwad was suffering from "cultural starvation" for the last seven years and has finally been served a "sumptuous cultural meal".So great was the public response that almost every venue at the three-day cultural extravaganza saw unprecedented crowds. At some venues where dance and music programmes were held the audience enjoyed the programmes standing. Even art galleries were so crowded in the evenings that the organisers had a difficult time controlling the crowds.The inaugural day was an indication of things to come. After the festival kicked off with high-spirited performances from scores of folk troupes from across the district and the neighbouring regions taking out a two-km long procession, an unprecedented crowd gathered to greet the artists at Karnatak College Ground, the venue of the inaugural function. There was a similar situation at Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur Kalabhavan where film star and theatre artist Naseeruddin Shah paid tributeto Urdu writer Ismat Chughtai with his Hindustani playIsmat Apa Ke Naam. Many watched the play on the giant screen erected outside Kalabhavan, standing.The next two days saw similar public participation. Artists, local and from other states, who put up a lively show were naturally encouraged by the crowds. "We had heard so much about Dharwad and the audience there. Today we feel it is even more than what we have heard," said a senior artist.The exuberance and the energy, which folk artists displayed on the first day, set the trend for things to come in the next two days. Every artist tried to make it a rewarding experience whether it was theatre, music, mono-acting, art work, puppetry, dance or any other art form.Kathak danseuse Malabika Mitra, vocalist Gokulotsav Maharaj, violinist M.S. Gopalkrishnan, T.S. Nagabharana who presented a mono-actAhat, amateur and traditional theatre companies, dance schools, young and senior painters, school and college students and teachers transformed the festival into a celebration of culture.Although the curtains have come down on the festival, it has certainly triggered a "cultural rejuvenation" as the organisers are terming it. Although the district is home to several famous musicians, writers and other artists, the bickering among them is not unknown. But what contributed most to the success of the utsav was their coming together. In spite of their ideological differences they joined hands to make it a grand success.The credit for the success should also be given to a host of officials led by Deputy Commissioner M.S. Srikar and even the hoteliers who set up food courts. The district administration has decided to make the fest it an annual affair and Deputy Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during his visit announced regular allocation of funds to conduct district festivals.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/24/stories/2006112401890300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/24/images/2006112401890303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBoys from Orissa dressed as girls presenting Gotipua
p14
ss.