(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOf devotion
p3
sVnews
p4
VSankeerthana, an organization devoted to the presentation of devotional and traditional art forms put up a mammoth two-day show at Ravindra Bharathi recently . This show marked the ongoing &#8216;Dhanurmasa&#8217;utsavasheld at different places in the state and the hills.There was a large gathering of devotees on both the days. The fore stage was decorated with specially made idols of Thyagaraja on one side and Annamacharya on the other. Kumar of Anakapallimade these figures out of plaster of paris.The show opened with the traditionalNadaswaramplay by B.Krishnamurthy and party, followed byutsavasmarked by rendition ofTiruppavaiofAndal,Veda parayanam,Tomala Seva,Thyagarajarchanaand other devotional activities. In the evening, there wasOonjal Sevato the Lord and the rendition ofThyagaraja Divyanama SampradayaKirtana Ganamby a thirty member group dominated by girls of Visakhapatnam&#8217;s Sri Sarada Annamayya Sangetha Vidyalaya.This was followed by an astoundingVadyataranginishow by Chennai&#8217;s V.L.Kumar party that received standing ovation.On the following day, the same set pattern of poojas were repeated with some exceptions.Distribution ofprasadam, specially made here by the &#8216;Mirasees&#8217; who came from Tirumala also took place.  On this occasion, they felicitated noted musicians Garimella Balakrishna Prasad and Parupalli Ranganath,  responsible for spreading Annamayya compositions by presenting programmes in India and abroad. They were felicitated by the Chairman of the central advisory Board of Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanam, Sri P.V.R.K.Prasad, IAS.Later, there were Annamacharya kiratana renditions by Chaitanya brothers &#8211; B.Krishnamacharyulu and V.Venkateswarlu and Parupalli Brothers &#8211; Ramcharan and Satyanarayana. All these four vocalists together rendered some of the compositions of Annamacharya starting with a kirtanaHariyavataaramithaduin Sourashtra, written by Peda Tirumalacharya son of Annamayya in praise of his father. All the four singers sang in one voice the compositions of Annamayya that includedSeve Bhavein Sankarabharanam,Paramanagjnaanulakuin Thodi,Vadevo Kantiratein rare Ramapriya,Ayameva Ayamevain Vasantha,Kommalala Enthavadein Bilahari,Veedivo Ala Vijayaraghavuduin Bridandavani andAmmamma Emammain Bhairavi.All the Archakas and Veda scholars came from Tirupati to perform poojas on both the days.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/26/stories/2008122650390300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.