(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPure and pristine
p3
sVnews
p4
VMadurai Mani IyerAll India Radio recording - classicalSaregama Price: Rs. 145A CD of Madurai Mani Iyer's music recorded by All India Radio several decades ago, has been released by Saregama. Madurai Mani Iyer was an icon in the arena of Carnatic music during the middle of the 20th century as were among others his contemporaries Ariyakkudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Musiri Subramania Iyer, Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer, Alathoor Brothers, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and the inimitable G. N. Balasubramaniam.Each of them had a characteristic style of his own that enriched the musical firmament with an incandescence that defies description. Mani Iyer's art was a testament to the human spirit. Braving ill health most of his life, he never once faltered in giving of his best in each and every concert.Hallmarks of his musicThe hallmarks of his music were total sruti adherence, bhava-laden kriti versions, and above all the avartanam after avartanam of sarva lagu swara improvisations that resulted in thunderous applause.The alapana of Bhairavi, Tyagaraja's "Koluvaiyunnade," the neraval and brisk spate of swaras, do indeed belong to a class, pure and pristine.Mayavaram Govindaraja Pillai on the violin plays a sedate Bhairavi, and offers wholesome support in the lyrical expansion and swaras. Ramanathapuram Murugabhoopathi on the mridangam and Palghat Sundaram on the ghatam are the percussion accompanists for this composition.The second song, "Palukavademira" in Devamanohari, precedes the Charukesi delineation that is studded with prayogas pertinent to the melody. "Aada Modi Galade" of Tyagaraja with its breezy swara passages makes an impressive impact on one's aesthetic sensibilities.The album concludes with "Nadupai," Tyagaraja's song in Madhyamavati, embellished as usual with lively swara sequences, that promptly strike a responsive chord. It is not easy to categorise artistes of Mani Iyer's stature, but one fact is for sure, he was a legend in his own lifetime.The other accompanists for songs 2,3 and 4 are R. S. Gopalakrishnan (violin) and Coimbatore Ramaswami (mridangam). Vocal support has been provided by T. S. VembuIyer, father of T. V. Sankaranarayanan.S. P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/12/stories/2006051200080300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/12/images/2006051200080301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLively swara sequences.
p14
ss.