(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA memorable evening
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe language of music is an act of revelation. For all present, the objectives of the Trust integrated with the thrust of the Sufi music rendered by the Nizami qawwals, which meets with the ideals of simplicity and sharing.The  Trust,  founded by Late Janab Sayyed Abdul Gaffoor Sahib in 1991, is presently looked after by the passionate commitment of Prince of Arcot Nawab Abdul Ali, Miss Sherifa Azeez, Janab Syed Muneer Ahmed and Janab Abdul Hafiz Khan Sahib and Mrs.Qudsia Gandhi. It supports the girl child and functions  on the conviction that a family can be educated through her.To achieve this end, first a qawwali and then a mushaira were  presented with progressive poets like Jauhar Allahabadi making the evening a memorable one. The forum highlighted how Urdu was the language of Hindustan and was an authentic metaphor of a consciousness that incarnated sound and meaning together.Surjit Singh Barnala, Governor of Tamil Nadu, and T.M.P. Moideen Khan, Minister for Environment and Sports, Govt. of Tamil Nadu graced the occasion.The Nizami qawwals began with a Hamd sung in the praise of Allah, with a delectable enumeration of His name, a realisation evoking a marvel.Qual, the message of Prophet Mohammad, enshrined a truth that all meanings derive from the Great Meaning, that everything in the world embodies the Truth, of the glory of Allah, and his dictum that, Ali is in me and I am in Ali.This was followed by Naat-e-Shareef, &#8216;Bhardo Jholimeri Ya Mohammad&#8217; in  praise of the Prophet. Manqabat, a piece in  praise of Ahle-E-Bait, the members of the family of Holy Prophet, &#8216;Main tau Khwaja ki Diwani,&#8217; was rendered splendidly.On popular request, Prince of Arcot Nawab Abdul Ali Sahib regaled the audience with the rendition of &#8216;Maula Salim Chishti, Aaqa Salim Chishti&#8217; in  praise of the great Sufi saint, Khwaja Salim Chishti, on whose precincts at Fatehpur Sikri in Agra, Emperor Akbar had walked bare-footed in the scorching heat of summer to seek the blessings of a son whom he eventually named Salim after the great Sufi saint.The Mushaira had an All India representation with poets like Mazid Faizabadi from Lucknow, Rahat Indori, Muzaffar Razmi from Kairana, Sikander Garbar from Roorkee, Zia Tonki from Tonk, Jameel Khairabadi from Kanpur, Afzal Manglouri from Mangalour, Wasim Rajpuri from Saharanpur, Ana Dehlvi and Nadim Nayyar. While Shabeena Adeeb from Kanpur was vibrant and alive, Rahat Indori was subtle and sublime, learned  Majid Devbandi from Delhi was eloquent and witty. Johar Kanpuri quoting from the Hadis brought out a tremendous fact that it was  Prophet Mohammad who had scented a fragrance from the direction of this land, that is Hindustan and pointed towards it and subsequently the Sahabis came according to the Prophet&#8217;s wish. Johar&#8217;s patriotic fervour was at its peak when he said, &#8216;Mere Nabi ko bhi Hindustan pyaara hai&#8217;.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/22/stories/2008022251310400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.