(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VColour of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe music lovers of Varanasi enjoyed this Holi with three colourful music events  that took place simultaneously. It seemed  spring had come to  create an entirely different musical mood  to  welcome the  traditional new year.Every year, after Holi, a traditional concert, Gulab Bari,  takes place in the  city. It was organised this year before Holi with a  Kathak  performance by Sharmistha Mukherji and a vocal recital by Shubha Mudgal. &#8220;There are competitors for  Gulab Bari now, that&#8217;s why we organised it before Holi  to bring in  the interested listeners,&#8221; clarified organiser Ashok Kapur of Kala Prakash.Sharmistha, who belongs to the Jaipur gharana, proved  that even well trained artistes cannot make an impact  unless they are imaginative. She was  stiff while presenting the abhinay ang just after the pure dance segment (shuddha nritta).Shubha Mudgal took the stage after Sharmistha. Basant was sung by Shubha with a Bahar touch and numerous taans.  With hard work she has honed her voice to perfection, but her recital  tended to resemble vocal exercises more than adept improvisations. There was technical dexterity but not lyrical use of imagination. This did leave the audience wanting something more.Anish Pradhan on the tabla and a promising Sudhir Naik on the harmonium accompanied her well. With her rendition of thumris and hori, she proved  herself a professional  who can sing both light classical and pure classical with the right notes  and emotions.Her concert the following evening at Tulsi Ghat led to some debate. This Khayal recital (Shyam Kalyan) was entirely different in terms of impact and rasa. Notes and taans were well controlled,  and her voice confident, but the presence of sahridaya (the aesthete) was absent. She seemed  alone and lonely in her  mind, which discouraged listeners from travelling the path of rasa. She did present hori and dadra with nuances, but cerebral manoeuvres don&#8217;t necessarily translate into aesthetic pleasure.  Siddharth Chakraborty proved he is a promising tabla artiste. After Shubha, Pandit Birju Maharaj captured the stage and through his disciple, he stole the hearts of the audience by presenting a fresh and imaginative interpretation of laya as a Greek rhapsody.Pandit Chhannulal Mishra once again mesmerised the listeners by presenting khayal, thumri, chaiti, chaita, ghato and hori in close proximity to the famous Vishwanath temple. By demonstrating gamaks, khatka, murki, gitkiri and various angas (styles) of Thumri singing like Punjab and Gaya, he improvised a lot and created the full impact of rasa.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/04/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/04/04/stories/2008040450140300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.