(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTunes with popular appeal
p3
sVnews
p4
VSamavedam Shanmukha Sarma, a man of formidable scholarship, has composed several songs on Lord Siva. More than a dozen of these were rendered by four singers to the accompaniment of a limited orchestra at the Kasturi Srinivasan Hall recently. The theme -- Sivapadam.Sarma offered explanations before each song, which has been drawn from the scriptures, mythology and Saint Tyagaraja. The songs cautioned prajas about turmoils (pralayams) that occur within us, offered one's own body (shariram) as the platform for Siva's divine dance, laid bare the types of sins humans indulge in, talked about Kannappa Nayanar's sacrificial act and extolled the power of silence.The tuning was by cine-fame K.V. Mahadevan, flautist Balasai, Valli Sarma and Balakrishan Prasad. Sudharshan, the co-ordinator of this performance, set the mettu for a few of these. The ragas that formed the base for the songs were Ananda Bhairavi, Gambhira Nattai, Bagesri, Abheri, Brindavana Saranga, Hindolam, Jhenjuti (executed with a folk type approach), Malyamarutham and Kapi.AppealingS.R. Veeraraghavan, Sudheer Warrier, Saindhavi and Vinaya formed the singing group. The songs were distributed among the male singers individually and the young female performers rendered the songs primarily as a duo. The singing expectedly had all the ingredients that appealed to the common listener and notably stayed midway between typical light music and chaste Carnatic style.Melakkaveri Thyagarajan contributed his part on the violin and Ramana accompanied on the flute giving some good preludes to the songs.The violin mike possibly needed better adjustment as the output could not be heard. Vijayendran on the mridangam showed how well he could fill the short spaces afforded to him. He alternated, shared and gelled well with senior tabla player Ramamurthy to give the necessary laya support. Saravanan who handled rhythms as a further laya accompanist provided strokes that produced an effect at appropriate places. He also handled the damaru to the best of his abilities.There was an avoidable and disturbing bugle-like sound emanating from the &#8216;rhythm' section that was heard time and again, more so as the songs began. This demands riddance or re-work to satisfy the aesthetic norms of an orchestra.The event organised by Sarvani Sangeetha Sabha, saw Sarma make his entire elucidation in Telugu. Yet, the main essence of these compositions could have been briefly stated in a few sentences in English, for the benefit of non-Telugu rasikas.Communication is the key to enrichment and enjoyment.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/30/stories/2010043051260200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/30/images/2010043051260201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDEVOTIONAL THEME: Musicians at the concert.
p14
ss.