(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA perfect diction
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis concert gave a refreshing and relishing experience, recalling the traditional style of the scholarly musicians of Andhra Pradesh. Every word that Malladi Narayana Sarma, a veteran in the field hailing from Vijayawada spelt was clearly understood, despite the echo ridden hall in Vinayaka temple, in Vijayanagar Colony where Vijayanagar Fine Arts Society, a music sabha celebrated its 21st anniversary.Narayana Sarma belongs to that era of late Voleti Venkateswaralu who was his guru and also to his brother Suribabu, who pairs with him in the concerts. On this occasion, veteran Narayana Sarma was accompanied by his son Yamuna Raman, who lent the supporting voice. We enjoyed Sarma's concert as much for its music as for the every word of the lyric pronounced with perfect diction. Narayana Sarma, sounded agile and active beating his age demonstrating authority on Carnatic grammar. It was a traditional approach that he adopted. His son Raman's vocal expression lifted the concert to satisfying levels.The repertoire for the evening comprised of popular numbers of Thyagaraja with sprinkle of Dikshitar, Shyama Sastry and Swathi Tirunal's contributions. This was opened with Mohana varnam Ninu Kori followed by most popular Ranganathude' in Sourashtra. Narasimha Mamava of Swathi Tirunal in Arabhi was followed by Thyagaraja's moving number Nee Dayarada in Vasantha Bhairavi.Idi Samayamura in Chayanata was a quickie and interesting. This was followed by a rare composition Himakumari in Ravikriya was delineated well by the veteran. The kriti rendition was packed with an engrossing swaraprasthara exercises. Telisi Rama Chintanato another popular number of Thyagaraja in Poornachandrika served as break for the veteran to take up the main raga of the evening, Sankarabharanam. This was impressively detailed by the veteran.Deekshitar's Sri Dakshina Murte was their choice kriti encasing the raga mood with a bit of nereval. The swarakalpana was interesting. The recital concluded with a Surdas bhajan. M.Umashankar on violin and P.Srinivasa Gopalan on mridangam lent support. Music competitions for children in junior and sub-junior sections were held as part of the programme.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550380301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMalladi Narayana Sarma
p14
ss.