(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious Annamayya kirtanas
p3
sVnews
p4
VSujanaranjani held a week-long music show at Thyagaraya Ganasabha marking the 600th Jayanthi of Annamacharya. Various singers presented Annamacharya compositions on the occasion. As many as 150 compositions of Annamayya figured in the festival, set to music by various composers, like Rallapalli Anantha Krishna Sarma, Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, Mullick, Balakrishna Prasad. Ten artistes took part, includingprominent musicians - Balakrishna Prasad and his son Anil, P.V. Subba Rao, Duddu Radhika, Seshulatha, Charla Gopalakrishna, Venumadhav, Kaivalya Kumar, Nihal, N.C. Sridevi and child prodigies Prachothan and Kalyana Vasanth, all of them have specialised in the rendition of Annamayyakirtanas. Balakrishna Prasad&#8217;s show with his son Anil on the final day (Sunday) was a highlightthat drew maximumcrowd.Balakrishna Prasad was felicitated on the penultimate day of the festival and was presented with &#8216;Annamayya Sankirtana Swara Virinchi&#8217; title In fact, he has composed around six hundred Annamayya compositions and even brought them out in the form of a book.In this connection, Sujanaranjani too published a bookAnnamayya Padaamrutha Varshiniwhich has 150 popular songs. The songs have a commentary by young researcher B.Sankara Rao, with reference to its context and meaning of difficult words.The concert by Balakrishna Prasadwas naturally the highlight of the whole festival. He rendered a two dozen compositions which by themselves formed into a treasure trove for the budding singers to learn and render. He belonged to the first batch of the TTD&#8217;s Annamacharya Project, launched quite sometime back to propagate Annamacharya Kirtanas. His renditions for theoccasion includedAnnimantramuluin Amrita Varshini,Yentamatramunain ragamalika,Brahma Kadigina Padamuin Mukhari ,Jaganmohana Karain Mohana,Tirutiru Jawaralain Gambhiranata and a song that describes the &#8216;panchabhootas.&#8217; All his songs received great applause from apacked house. There were also many &#8216;requests&#8217; to sing a particularkirtanaof Annamayya, to which he warmly responded. Besides, he also spoke of the lyrical content of the songsand explained their significance. His son Anil Kumar had his share of renditions and revealed the gifted melodious voice. P.V. Subba Rao, a noted Carnatic vocalist, picked out some interesting songs that included &#8212;Ee padame Gadain ragamalika,Yennadu Vigjnanamika Nakuin Sivaranjani,Viswaprakasunakuin Kapi set to music by D. Pasupati.Duddu Radhika&#8217;sParamapurushain Shanmukhapriya,Okaparikokapariin Kharahara Priya, a composition of Nedunuri were other highlights. K. Seshulata sangAlarulu KuriyagaSankarabharanam,Sringara Murtiviin Khamas impressively. Venumadhav, another noted vocalist impressed with the renditions ofIde Sirasu Manikyamuin Panthuvarali,Alamaelu Manga nee Abhinava Roopamuin Kalyani.The latter composition was set to music by the late Srirangam Gopalaratnam, a musician of yesteryear.G.S.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/16/stories/2008051650590300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.