(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSerenely flowed the music
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANRestlessness is a word alien to Unnikrishnan's musical vocabulary &#151;  a happy omission that over the years has ensured that his music is firmly grounded in purpose and discipline and espousessowkhyam, perhaps a major factor that keeps his rasikas coming back for more. In his concert for Hamsadhwani, the artiste was in good form, fulfilling the expectations of an appreciative audience.The easy flow of sarvalaghu swaras for Tyaragaraja's `Varaalandu' (Gurjari) and `Sogasujooda'(Kannadagowla) bore the distinct stamp of Madurai Mani Iyer, the concluding swaras in Kannadagowla graced with vadi-samvadi permutations. Varadarajan's responses on the violin were swift, sure and to the point.Shanmukhapriya, not really in vogue this season, was a welcome choice, the raga being steered gently but firmly on a carefully charted course. There was sensitivity in interpretation and refinement in expression. However, the frequent use of the `u' kara in long interlinked phrases deployed at the panchama and tara sthayi shadja areas did less to convey their impact when the usage of akara could have done more. When the akara did make its appearance, the effect was enhanced several fold.While Unnikrishnan created a brief, interesting shift in focus by airing a few well-chosen panchama-varja phrases, Varadarajan zoomed in on this concept as his point of dominant focus during his solo turn, the choice impeding his view of the raga from a wider perspective. Papanasam Sivan's `Andavanae' is a moving composition to which the vocalist did justice, capturing the element of poignancy in his leisurely treatment of the neraval at `Thaandavam Aadum', followed by swaraprasthara.Deep involvementShyama Sastri's `O Jagadamba' in Ananda Bhairavi rendered with deep involvement, was an island of repose. Only, in his quest to immerse himself in bhava, the artiste lost out on spashtam, the sahitya emerging as blurred syllables with flat intonations. If he could direct his attention towards sustaining clarity of diction, it would be an additional feather in his cap. The Tyagaraja composition `Palukavemi' in Poornachandrika provided a change in mood and pace.Sankarabharanam, the main raga, benefited from the artiste building upon the bedrock of traditional pidis in the mandira sthayi and shadja-panchama range.An extended halt at the panchama, alternated karvais with intricately-drawn passages that mirrored his keen aesthetic impulses. As the raga progressed, there was a constant striving to reach beyond the confines of conformity.The elaboration at the tara sthayi shadja and madhyama stood out for the open-throated handling of prayogas. The impeccably executed neraval at `Tanuvu' in the Tyagaraja krithi `Manasu Swaadhina' (Misra Chapu) and apt poruttams in the melkala swaras held considerable interest.Post thani, the viruttam in ragamalika format shone with emotive content, followed by `Mosam pogadhe nenje' in Kapi and `Kurai ondrum illai' on request. S. Varadarajan's playing was marked by commendable alertness in swara sallies and the pursuit of promising leads in raga exposition.Shertalai R.Ananthakrishnan (mridangam) and S.V.Ramani (ghatam) led with confidence sans aggression and responded at every turn to the intention of the other artistes.At the close of Hamsadhwani's 16th Annual Music festival, the R.Ramachandran Sashtiabdapoorthi Endowment Prize for Best Junior Vocalist was awarded to Umahmaheshwar.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/21/stories/2006042102440400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/21/images/2006042102440401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VREFINED: Unnikrishnan.  Photo: M. Karunakaran
p14
ss.