(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich in rhythm and mood
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Chandrasekharendra Sangeetha Educational Society recently celebrated its 10th Annual Music Festival.  Leading musicians from South were present for the fest.   One wished the local presence was there too. However, the big names in music like N. R\u000aamani, Sanjay Subramanyam, Sriram Parasuram-Anuradha, Krishna Murthy and O.S. Tyagarajan and Sudha Raghunathan mesmerised the music lovers.Sanjay Subramanyam a leading and a  competitive performer  always gives his best when it comes to his concerts. He  strictly follows theAryakudipath. . He started his concert withmalavi varnamandRaramaintidakhain Asaveri.Evarikai avataramoin Devamritha Varshini was rendered with good aggression. In Gangeyabhushani  Sanjay brought out theragabhavamwith ease andNe sarievvareof Thyagaraja with classicSwarakalpana.  Kambhoji was the main attraction and Sanjay&#8217;sragamshows his knowledge.Sri Subramanyaya Namstheof Deekshitar a classic composition of Kambhoji was neatly handled with its lovelysangathis.Theswaramwas impressive and Sanjay did thetrikalamof the Pallavi. S.Varadarajan on the violin accompanied Sanjay well.  Venkatesh was on the mridangam and murali on the ghatam, the two were good . Sanjay concluded withHe Govinda He Gopalain Madhuvanthi, EppoVaruvaro.Anuradha and Sriram Parasuram  kept  the rasika&#8217;s glued to their seats with their commendable vocal jugalbandi. They opened withEeranapaia Thodi varnam.Mahaganapathimin Natai was the next and Anuradha took the Krithi to a greater height in the Hindustani counter part of natai &#8212; Jhog. Theswaramwas good.Varaliwas neatly essayed by Sriram forEtijhanmamuof Thyagaraja and the Krithi was rendered in its true spirit.The duo brought in the Carnatic and Hindustani styles with distinct clarity .Ambaparadevatheof Thyagaraja in Rudrapriya was sung by both artistes in the sameragamwithout touching the Hindustani version.  The violin support by Mysore Srikanth was appreciable and the mridangam by Banglore Sudheendra was commendable. The highlight was the harmonium support by the experienced Surendra Bharathi.O.S. Thyagarajan a senior vidwan began his recital with Kedaragowlavarnam.Evarikaiin Devamritha Varshini was the next.Ilalo pranathardiin Atana was neatly rendered. Latangi was briefly rendered and Thyagarajan showed his command over theragam. Thyagarajan took Thodi for a detailed essay and here the concert really took an interesting turn.He showed his maturity in his rendition and theragamcame out brilliantly. Delhi P. Sounderajan a senior vidwan supported well on the violin and his Thodiragamwas good. Bala Shankar on the mridangam and Nemani Somayajulu on the ghatam did their jobs well andtaniin Misrachapu was impressive.Sudha Raghunathan enthralled the rasikas with her scintillating recital on the last day.Having rich sruthi, laya and clear diction, she began her recital with Bhairaviatatalamwhich set the momentum of the concert. She sang aviruttamin Varali and herragamwas great.Anupama Gunabhoodhiin Atana of Thyagaraja was a fast number with speedyswaramin it. Sudha took Vachaspathi for a detailed essay and theragamwas dealt in a brilliant way and her command over thebirka sangathiswas appreciable.The violin support by Raghavendran was excellent. The highlight of the concert was the brilliant mridangam accompaniment by Patri Satish Kumar.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/13/stories/2009021350380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/02/13/images/2009021350380303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAnuradha and Sriram Parasuram
p14
ss.