(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VS anjay Subramaniam name spells melody or else there is no reason for anyone to step out of their cosy homes on a sultry summer evening, bearing the brunt of a stifling climate in the open venue of Keyes High School. Everyone in the audience sat in rapt attention tapping fingers as Sanjay reeled out one song after the other in his inimitable style.The Ata tala Kanada varnam paved the way for Mohana Pavanutha Narada with the trademark swaying kalpana swaras establishing the rapport with the audience. Varadarajan gave a faithful follow up which was relished by all. The beauty of Dikshitar reflected in the pleasant Khamas as Saarasadhala nayana with brilliant sangathees in vilamba kalai flowed out of the vocalist's infectiously melodious tone. Shanmukhapriya spiraled its way in the alapana unwinding in jerks and finally opening out in Mari vere dikkevarayya Rama. The neraval at Nannu brovaka unduta nyayama with its stylistic handling and word/syllabic play brought out the quintessential Sanjay Subramaniam. Not to mention the total absence of &#8216;aarthi' (pathos) in voice which the lyrics so merited! The wind-up was a little too abrupt.Sanjay definitely brought in the required mood and emotion in his Tamil renditions like Sivakama sundari in Mukhari further enhancing its innate lyrical sweetness. The sweeping alapana set in motion the Khambhoji that left no stone unturned in exploring the raga nuances with very Sanjay-like trips in the higher and lower octaves. The lyric ( Rasa Vilasa) as such was not all that common yet the beautiful solkattu embedded within its frame bestowed a rare splendour to the raga.He kept his creativity in spinning swaras rather optimum though excellent in the lower octave, while he shuttled in the higher. As usual the violinist proved a fitting accompanist while the percussion threw challenges at each other with mridangist N. Venkatesh and ghatam player Tirucchi Murali by out doing each other.The Thyagaraja keertana in YamunaKalyani ( Haridaasulu vedale) streamed in smoothly and in a sweet manner. Then came the Kapi ( Kali lo Hari smarana) and Kalyani (a Tamil song), the former racy and rhythmic while the latter deep and dignified as it ought to be. His viruttams in ragamalika were like meteors flashing across the music firmament.Is it too much to ask a musician of Sanjay Subramaniam's calibre to adopt a little more feeling in rendition, keeping his virtuosity intact? That would make for a perfectly wholesome treat to genuine music lovers.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/03/stories/2011060350150300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/03/images/2011060350150301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSoulful stirring Sanjay Subramaniam
p14
ss.