(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic from the ghats
p3
sVnews
p4
VRecentlythe Indian Music Academy, a new Mumbai-based   organisation, presented a classical concert, Jalsa, at Tulsi Ghat, on the bank of the Ganga in Varanasi. This five-hour programme had two attractions: a flute recital by Rakesh Chaurasia and a santoor recital by Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma.The Academy was launched early last year by   President  APJ Abdul Kalam. It is a body of musicians from differentgenres. Formed primarily to spread and popularise Indian music around the globe, it was conceptualised by Art and Artistes, an umbrella organisation founded by  Durga Jasraj, daughter of Hindustani maestro Pandit Jasraj.Rakesh, nephew of Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia, presented raga Yaman on his long   flute. With the stress on Teevra Madhyam and the phrase Ni, Re, Ga, Re, Sa, Pa, Ma, Ga, Re, Sa, he decorated this common but important raga in a most modern way.A few years ago, in a programme organised by Pandit Rajan-Sajan Mishra, he had played  in a traditional way, but this evening, his approach was different, as he introduced some gimmicks. . He concluded with two bandishes in raga Desh and a Pahadi dhun. His manner is different from the tradition of Pandit Pannalal Ghosh, Annapurna Devi and Pandit Ronu Mazumdar.Next came Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma. Recently he presented a beautiful Rageshri at the Ganga Mahotsava, but here at Jalsa,  on the other bank of the Ganga, he  touched the soft notes of raga Bageshri. Though he was concerned over the insensitive sound system,  he  presented the ascending komal swaras in a sublime manner. After the concert there was to be a question-answer session, an integral part of Jalsa. But with the concert ending late on a chilly night, there were no questions. Though such interaction is one of the IMA's main objectives in organising Jalsa, it is true the mind seeks solitude to absorb and preserve a fine concert. Ram Kumar Mishra, a brilliant exponent of the Banaras gharana, accompanied both the artistes with his powerful tabla.GAUTAM CHATTERJEEBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/05/stories/2007010501670300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/05/images/2007010501670301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTOUCH OF CLASS Pandit Shiv Kumar performed  at Jalsa.
p14
ss.