(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA sparkling show
p3
sVnews
p4
VGayathri Venkataraghavan is a glamorous and sweet singer; here is an artiste whose objective is an absolute clarity of texture, a euphonious ensemble, an infallible sense of timing, and above all, prime concern with continuity and flow.Holistically, the concert had a format and presentation in keeping with the desire of the day and acceptance of the audience. The performance was just as anticipated, without any charismatic distinction, yet healthy, meaningful, cogent and coherent. It was kalyani (Ethaunnara), which she chose to sing at length. Every feature in the item,alapana,neraval,swarakalpana, were just as predictable. Theswarakalpanafor thekrithiinBegadawas impressive. Thesangathisfor the itemRangapuraviharawere rather wanting. The item inmisra chapu thalawas conspicuous by its absence. It was mridangam playing by Arvind, which was alluring. His intelligent way of approach tosthayiand relatedkalapramanamin thekrithiwere what he chose as his benchmark for his creativity.  Sathyanarayana, one of the most experienced violinists, gave admirable support.Sashank&#8217;s efforts in rhythmic ecstasies have gone beyond acceptance. The frequent experiments of changing a mode into various forms, presenting it in different points of view, illustrating it by apt similitude, the air usually fails him: it has become habitual. Therefore, it sounds ordinary.  Sashank is an outstanding flute player, perhaps the topmost today; he is precise and exclusive. In his emotional communication, he creates a psychological arousal.Ask him anything fromathi-vilambamtoathi-druta kalamorathi mandaramtoathi-thara sthayi; he will deliver them precisely and adequately, timed and placed accurately. Forget his small and pardonable idiosyncrasies; his music is divine and inimitable. His expertise in depicting the grace of a raga is individualist. On the day, the two ragas, Poorvikalyani (Meenakshi) and Brindavana Saranga (RTP) pierced the heart as it were.Kaanada varnamwelcomed the listeners. Raga Mohana followed byevarura ninnuivinawas worth praising.Among the younger generation, Gurucharan is a rising star. Endowed with good looks and knowledge of art, he is a performer of no mean merit. He is a powerful singer with a promising future. The highlight of the concert was the judicious selection of items and their sequence, each falling in place. Added to this, his immaculatesruticontributed the neededsukha(delight)He diligently avoids mannerisms and histrionics and confines himself to classicism. The proportion and overall balance is meticulously maintained and nothing is overdone. The emphasis was on the difficult RTP inragamalikaconsisting ofshankarabharana,todi,kalyanianddarbar.Ninnenammithuinayya,a composition of Vasudevacharya insimhendramadhyamam, included pleasing aspects of every feature. Sanjeev on the violin was good and his contribution tosimhendramadyhamamand ragas in the RTP were well received.Violinists-turned-vocalists Rajani and Gayathri have a sparkling style based on the technique of playing that instrument and the entire operation not only seems, but in reality, rests on it. The whole performance is decidedly worked out and opulently rehearsed. It is sometimes devotion and at other times entertainment of the first order. There is great splendour of diction and elevation of sentiment, elegance and sweetness.  The rendering of the krithis &#8212;KamalambainAndanda Bhairavi, NadopasanainBegadain the rightkala pramanawas commendable. The raga Shanmukapriya and the RTP set tokhndajathi thriputa talamwere more customary than emotive. Charumati Raghuraman on the violin was very good. The contribution of Balaji on the mridangam and Shyamakumar on the kanjira was rich.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/05/stories/2008120550210300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/12/05/images/2008120550210302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKalasagaram&#8217;s tributeThe title of &#8216;Sangeeta Kalasagara&#8217; was conferred on (from top left) Dr. Pinakapani, M.S. Anantharaman and Srimushnam Raja Rao. Prema Ramamurthy was honoured for her contribution to the cause of music.
p14
ss.