(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTwo days of ecstasy
p3
sVnews
p4
VWell known flautist K.V.Ramanujam from Chennai gave an excellent concert on the first day of the Thyagaraja Aradhanotsavam organised by the Department of Culture, Government of A.P., and Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao Government College of Music and Dance, Vijayawada at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Verdika .Ramanujam, produced perfectly sruti-aligned music, striking an instant rapport with the audience . He began withSri Ganapathiniin Sourashtra and followed it up with the Sri raga Pancharata keertana,Endaro. There was a brief but lilting delineation of Ganamurthi preceding the kriti,Ganamurthe Sri Krishna Venu.  Ramanujam took up Poorvikalyani as one of the major items of the concert, presenting the raga with great aesthetic sense and playedGnanamosagaradawith crisp swaras. The main item was the majestic Thyagaraja keertanaChakkani Raja Margamuin Kharaharapriya. Superb raga elaboration marked the item. Other attractive numbers played by Ramanujam wereParamatmuduin Vagadheeswari andEmani pogadudurain Veeravasantam, avivadi janyaraga. The flautist was excellently supported by B.V. Durgabhavani on violin, P.S.S.V. Phalgun on mridangam and I. Anjaneya Sastri on ghatam.Early in the evening, nine-year-old Uppuluri Satwika showed promising talent while rendering a brief vocal concert. Satwika is the daughter of well known violinist and singer V. Krishnaveni.  Sporting a good laya and sruti gnanam, she began with a varnam of Balamurali and followed it up withOrajoopuchuchedi(Kannadagowla),Mayateeta Swaroopini(Mayamalavagowla) andTelisite Mokshamu(Hamsanadam). She was  ably supported by B.V.S.Manohar on the violin and K.Aravind on the mridangam.The second and final day of the festival started with a well co-ordinated veena ensemble by the students of the music college, conducted by K.S.Govindarajan, the veena lecturer . The group, B.Rajeswari, B.Vasantakumari, M.Lata Madhuri, Ch.Lalita Neeharika and P.Srivalli, melodiously playedGirirajasutha(Sudhabangala),Sobhillu(Jaganmohini),Ammaravamma(Kalyani),Kalaharanamelara(Sudha Saveri) andSara Sara Samaraika Soora(Kuntalavarali). S.Prasad accompanied well on the mridangam.The final treat of the two day festival was a superb vocal concert by Dr. Pantula Rama of Visakhapatnam, a highly accomplished singer . She had competent support from M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murthy on the violin, B.V.S.Prasad on the mridangam and I.Anjaneya Sastri on the ghatam. Rama, sporting a sweet voice, thrilled the audience with her fine command onmanodharmamaspects.She started her concert withRara ma yintidakain Asaveri which was preceded by a brief and efficient raga essay. Next, she sangBantureetiin Hamsanadam with a pleasing raga delineation . The main item in Rama&#8217;s concert was the keertana,Nadadina Matain Sri ragam. . The keertana was preceded by fineragamalika tanam. Violinist Srinivasa Narasimha Murthy presented excellent raga versions of Sri ragam and Hamsanadam. B.V.S. Prasad&#8217;s mridangam following was marked with clarity and fine rhythmic sense and his tani was one of the highlights in the concert.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/13/stories/2009021350270200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/02/13/images/2009021350270201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.