(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRemembering vaggeyakaras
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a mega 14-day-long festival in which reputable musicians of Vijayawada took part and rendered compositions of different famous vaggeyakaras. The festival organised by `Annamayya Sankeertana Gana Prachara Bhaktha Brindam' took place at the temple complex Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram. The speciality of the festival was that each musician rendered compositions of a single vaggeyakara on each day. The compositions represented Annamacharya, Ramadas, Purandara Das, Jayadeva, Narayana Teertha, Tyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar, Syamasastri, Munipalle Subramanya Kavi, Mysore Vasudevacharya and N.Ch.Krishnamacharyulu.On the first day Manda Krishnamohan sang more than a dozed keertanas of Annamayya. Tyagaraja's compositions were sung by Popuri Gowrinadh with his sonorous voice and neat style. On the third day compositions of Muthuswamy Dikshitar were rendered by C.V.P.Sastri. Vishnubhatla sisters Saraswathi and Krishnaveni impressively rendered Syamasastri's keertanas in Mayamalavagowla, Ahiri, Madhyamavathi, and Reetigowla. Narendra Saradi sang compositions of Bhaktha Ramadas like Emayyarama, Ennaganu, and Hari Hari Rama. Jayadeva's Ashtapadis were chastely and neatly rendered by the Pappu sisters Sasikala, Sirisha and Aparna. Modumudi Sudhakar sang the compositions of Mysore Vasudevacharya. Malladi Suribabu presented in his concert several keertanas of Purandaradas some of the highlights being Sakalagrahabala and Kantena Govindana. In the next day's concert P.S. Rao rendered some rare compositions of Munipalle Subramanya Kavi. Compositions of vidwan and scholar N.Ch. Krishnamacharyulu were rendered by his son N.Ch.Butchiahcharyulu in ragas Kalyani, Sunadavinodini, Mararanjani and Neelambari. Pappu Sadasiva Sastri sang on the next day presenting some more Annamayya keertanas.In almost all the concerts, manodharmam aspects took second place giving importance to the compositions of different vaggeyakaras in their chaste shape.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/03/stories/2010120350070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/03/images/2010120350070201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VReturn to tradition Modumudi Sudhakar.
p14
ss.