(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA cultural melange
p3
sVnews
p4
VGlorious pandal, dazzling lights, pretty women, and a large crowd welcomed the audience for the 39th Annual Festival of Kalasagaram covering music, dance and drama. The nine-day programme that commenced on November 25 included famous artistes like T.N. Seshagopalan, Nityasree Mahadevan, Master Sathyanarayana (keyboard), T.M. Krishna, Jayanthi and Padmavathi (veena), Ranjani Gayathri, Malladi Brothers, a dance item and a couple of Tamil dramas. The occasion was also chosen to felicitate D.K. Pattammal.Among the three womenkalanidhis, M.S, M.L.V. and D.K.P., if the first two are popular and admired, Pattammal (DKP) stands out as a colossus. She is a consummate artiste incomparable for excellence and merit, unmatched by any one past or present. The essence of her music in terms of melody, spirituality, diction, clarity, poise &#151;  name it, she has them in unmeasured magnitude and eminence. In short, it is futile to evaluate her music for the one who attempts to do it will eventually prove thoroughly incompetent.As a person, even at 86, she is adorable, gentle, accommodative and cheery. Singing in duet with her late brother D.K. Jayaraman her concerts had uncommon vigour, not only for interpretation and taste, but also of judgment; there was a unique amplitude and copiousness of communication. In felicitating this endearing artiste, D.K. Pattammal, with the title `Kalasagara' the organisation has honoured itself.Pattammal could not attend the function due to infirmity and her granddaughter and disciple Nityasree Mahadevan gave the inaugural concert of the festival. Nityasree belongs to theparamparaof D.K.P., but her style is marginally modified in the sense that it is youthful and incisive although the poise, relaxation (vishrathi) and depth are maintained.  She can cater to different sections and eventually prove success, even if it may finally leave a vague notion of middling standard. The highlight of the concert wasDhanyasi(Meenalochaneof Shyama Sastry), moving majestically. The song is framed inmisra chapu thalaand set to a rigid structure where liberty waits as a cautious watchword.  M.A. Kishnaswamy on the violin did what best he could; the percussion duo Skanda Subramaniam on the mridangam and Ramanamurthy on the ghatam was comfortable when it came tomadhyamakala kritis, but they ran into rough weather withvilanba kala kritis.On the second day was the concert of Carnatic music on the key board by teenager Sathayanarayana; he proved to be a talented boy who has good concept of music but the instrument is inapt to play Carnatic music because, it is not designed to produce the nuances of the art.  The artiste played a couple of items likeVathapiinHamsadwaniandMarubalkainSriranjani. Peri Sriramamurthy played on the violin and DSR Murthy, mridangam.`Kalanidhi Designate' T.N. Seshagopalan's comprehension of mind is the mould for his art. His lucidity is powerful, his views pious and charitable, his assiduity almost incredible. The style seems too strong at first, but by degrees, is brightly relished and much of the melody is of legendary value; so much do they captivate the ear, and seize upon the attention.He sings with the ease of a gentleman and his audience fancy that a wise and accomplished companion is on the stage so that he insinuates his sentiments and taste into their minds by an imperceptible influence. The listeners attend with awe and admiration; and his precepts are impressed upon them by his commanding articulacy. So much do they captivate the ear, and seize upon the attention, that there is scarcely any singer, however inconsiderable, who does not aim, in some degree, at the same species of excellence.The authentic manipulations and perhaps even the problem to some extent is his technique, however inestimably difficult it is to execute, is also tricky for the average listener to absorb. Had his musical phrases been narrower, his expression would have been easier to follow. While he chose a set of uncommonkritis, kamboji (Sri Subramanyaya Namaste) stood out in every discipline of the item.B.R.C.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120101200300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.