(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrumming sarod storm
p3
sVnews
p4
VYella Venkateswara Rao is known as the virtuoso with his mridangam. Of late, he has been trying to mix the rhythm instrument with lots of innovations and experiments that sometime confuse the listeners as to what the whole thing is about. Same was the mood and confusion in the minds of the audience as he gave a performance oftala vadya kacheriat the Taramati Baradari Culture Complex recently..He started his performance withHamsadvani ragaand ended with aRaga Malikacomposed by him, which comprised manyragaswith base asKeeravani. Though the melody part wherein he used the sitar, violins, flute and keyboard were pleasant to hear, the combination of all the melody and percussion was loud, and it created a cacophony when all were playing simultaneously. The emphasis was more on speed than showing balance between melody and rhythm.The gesticulations and facial expressions of Venkateswara Rao created a complex amongst the accompanists, which was evident, as they started faltering inlayaandsrutiwhile playing the instruments. Thetani(individual)avartan(performance) of the percussionists was not synchronised and the coordination was missing. Perhaps the rehearsals were insufficient. There appeared to be confusion as to who should play when and after whom.Thrilling sarodThe second concert of the evening was by sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and his two sons: Aman Ali Khan and Ayan Ali Khan Bangash.The concert began withRag Kausi kanada, played by the two sons of Amjad Ali Khan who were accompanied by Sandeep Das on tabla. Though they are young, they showed their mastery in playing the instrument and proved that they are going to set the trend in sarod like their illustrious father.Ustad Amjad Ali Khan started his concert with an unusual style, by playing songs composed from his new albumMoksha.  He preferred to move away from the traditional route and followed the first composition with a folk song set todadra.The concert concluded with all the three performing together at the end. The sheer melody of sarod and played by Amjad Ali Khan mesmerised the audience and they enjoyed every bit of it, unmindful of the non-traditional performance.The ambience and the setting was very good and the APTDC needs to be complemented for the effort and as Amjad Ali Khan mentioned that despite 100 TV channels, many came to witness the performance live, and in turn keeping the tradition alive for performing arts.On the whole it was an evening of rhythm and melody.C.SURESH KUMARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042801510300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042801510301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRHYTHM DELIGHT Amjad Ali Khan.  Photo: K. Gajendran
p14
ss.