(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFull of melodic expressions
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe greatness of the Ramayana is that the sages doing ascetic penance craving to see God were blessed by Sri Rama Himself coming to see them in the forests. Such an ecstasy was bestowed on Sri Tyagaraja when Sri Rama gave darshan in the composer's simple house ("Bala Kanakamaya"). This feature of Sri Rama coming to bless his devotee in his house was enacted when the Rama idol was brought from the temple to the Sri Tyagaraja shrine on the inauguration day of the Tyagaraja festival in Tirupati.A young very talented violinist, not so well known, Srimathi Charulatha Ramanujam, stole the hearts of the rasikas whose play was full of expressions of amiability. She breathed melodic charm in the alapanas of Pantuvarali ("Appa Rama Bhakti") and Kedaragowla ("Tulasi Bilva") which masked a deep spring of maturity. She was accompanying Suguna Purushothaman with Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar on the mridangam.Palai Ramachandran was over-anxious to register the Semmangudi bhani to the hilt by placing all his musical skills to present the ragas Mukhari ("Ksheenamai") and Kalyani ("Rama Nee Vaadu Kontuvo") with great assertive vigour, but destitute of daintiness. The mridangist Mannargudi Easwaran fuelled the vocalist's fervour. V. L. Kumar, the violinist, took this performing pattern with a smile.Clear musical instinctsY.V.S. Padmavati, accompanied by L. Jayaraman (violin) and Sudhakar (mridangam) placed her modest musical equipment with the items, "E Vasuda" (Sahana), "Pakkala Nilabadi" (Karaharapriya) and "Enduku Peddala" (Sankarabharanam). Sudhakar's play enlivened the concert.With crispness and clear musical instincts Sabari Girish sang the ragas Madhyamavati  ("Naadupai") and Kalyani ("Bhajana Seyave"). The ragas and kirtanas were well expressed within artistic limits. Kailasam was the violinist and Parupalli Balasubramaniam was the mridangist who accompanied Sabari Girish.Veena vidwan Balakrishna's (son of V. Doreswami Iyengar of Mysore) recital spoke of his commitment to Sampradaya purity, not to talk of artistry alone. The grand way he built up the raga alapanas of Ritigowla, Sriranjani, Bilahari and Kambhoji was vibrant with rakhti intensity. Soaring inspiration and compelling technique were in perfect fusion. He shed elegance and radiance in rendering the kirtanas "Brochevaarevare", "Toli Janma" and "O! Rangasayee" in the ragas mentioned earlier. Renuka Prasad (mridangam) and Narayanamurthy (ghatam) added gentle rhythm to the veena's notes.SVKBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/05/stories/2005080503160500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/05/images/2005080503160501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCharulatha Ramanujam.
p14
ss.