(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPoles meet in aesthetic blend
p3
sVnews
p4
VP.S. KRISHNAMURTHYOne could fantasise hearing sounds form Himalayan birds alternating with those from birds of the plains while listening to the jugalbandhi offered by Lakshmi Sriram and Gayathri Girish in an enjoyable two-hour concert at the Music Academy Mini Hall for Sarvani Sangeetha Sabha on the evening of Saturday last.The Hindustani and Carnatic styles of music, for all their claim to being Indian, are still poles apart in the ethos of development, presentation and even perception.To rule out North Indian music as a form that just plods and drags through `alap' interminably (as felt by many South Indian minds) would be as narrow a stand to take as the more predominant view of many, ``northies" that Carnatic music consists only of producing grating notes at thundering speeds, throwing flavour and savour to the winds.Distinct tasteComparison does not give pleasure, as it tends to get analytical; what the listener would perhaps like - even if he is unable to spell it out - is the distinct taste of both together, in short durations of alternation. Lakshmi and Gayathri attempted to achieve just this: to present a tasty blend of the two, with each standing out sharply in its own  identity, and to demonstrate a homogeneity of aesthetics, rather than a concoction of black and white to dish out a bland grey! It was not necessary to understand the language of Hindustani or Carnatic music. Going by the response of the near hundred members of audience, the singers succeeded eminently.To go into some details - Lakshmi introduced Hamsadhwani (recently inducted into the Hindustani school from Carnatic) with a brief `alap,' a `sloka' (`Agajanana padmarkam') and a `Sargam" (swaraprasthara) with typical Hindustani stress; Gayathri gracefully took over with a GNB sahityam (`Vara-vallabha-nayaka'). There was a short exchange of manodharma through swaras, highlighting the charms of the differing rendering fashions.Lakshmi's `Chhayanut' (a raga for early night) in madhyama-laya-vilambit (medium fast alapana) and `drut' (fast-paced) was wound up with a bandish' (near equivalent of a sahityam with talam) with the words `jhanana-ghanana.' Gayathri's voice flowed in at this point and carried the concert like a stream, solo, with `Janaranjani.'Endearing lyricTo Gayathri's competent alapana in all sthayis in Kalyani, the main piece, Lakshmi responded with Hindustani Yaman, adding an endearing sahityam describing two children, just brought into wedlock. The artistes, including Akkarai Subbulakshmi (violin), Jain Painthate (tabla) and B. Sivaraman (mridangam) made up an extremely wholesome, vibrant treat, through repeated bursts of sparkling music. This part of the concert highlighted the creative spontaneity into which they had all been drawn.The lasting impression that one got at the end was of an enrichment of one's experience, lack of practice for the team as a whole notwithstanding.The violin faced no mean challenge in having to adapt itself to two different styles, particularly at speed. Practice for such efforts calls for considerable patience and time, the accompanying artist needs to let her mind sink into the ethos of both styles.Mere knowledge of the notes or even the differing stress is just not adequate. Not complacence but assiduity is necessary.The percussionists did not have to face the same difficulty, as their language was common. Both while accompanying and during `tani' their presentations were picturesque and lively. If one felt that Gayathri was sometimes slipping into `Yaman' and `Lakshmi' into ``Mecha-kalyani," it could be subjective, but that did not mar the enjoyment of the concert, although all these could be matters to address if the pair decides to offer another such essay in public in future.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802701000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802701001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFLUENT FLOW: Lakshmi Sriram (left) and Gayathri Girish.
p14
ss.