(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDemonstration of will
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARI`Vipanchi Balaga', a team of five women veena players from Manipal  presented a concert at Ravindra Bharathi on Saturday, under the aegis of Department of Culture, Andhra Pradesh. The programme was a demonstration of their will, more than their skill. The enthusiasm to impress the audience was very much there with what all they learnt so far in this art. The team was led by Pavana Balachandra Achar,  Director, Kala Spandana. Usha Kamala, Snigdha Kola, Veena Upadhyaya and Surekha Tantry were the other four members. They were accompanied on mridangam by Balachandra Achar, a faculty member of Manipal Technology Institute and on ghatam by Sridhar Acharya, a senior faculty member of IIT, Pune.All the five  are not professional veena players. But Veena is their passion. They have been entertaining music lovers with their melodies and skill.The repertoire had almost a dozen and a half compositions in Telugu and Kannada , which they played with high degree of discipline. Their stage presence was so appealing that Rallabandi Kavita Prasad, director of Department of Culture, described them as a group of `Gandharvas' sent by Goddess Saraswati.  Their ability to play in unison, note to note,   displayed the talent in them to become veena players with a professional touch.Clear notesThere were no raga essays ornerevalandswaraplay. Almost all the compositions were played invilamba kala, to be sure that they presented each note clearly and in unison. The stage was decorated delightfully with pictures of veena, creating right kind of ambiance. All the artistes sat in an array with mridangam and ghatam. Anjali Rao was providing the tala beat as guide to the players.One third of the repertoire was filled with Kannada compositions. They opened with a navaraga malika varnam,Valachi Vachiof `Patnam' and then proceeded withVatapi(Hamsadhwani) as an invocation. After the popularSamaja Varagamana(Hindolam), they playedJagadananda Karaka(nattai) of Thyagaraaja &#151;  carefully keeping to the devotional import of the song. Other notable compositions includedDarabendre,a Kannada composition insuddhadhanyasithat describes the spring season. Then there wasRaghuvamsa Sudha(kadanakutuhalam).Vasudevayani(kalyani), describing the beauty of Lord Vasudeva, was well received. The inspiringRanjani mala&#151;  a quintet ofragas ranjani, sivaranjani, sriranjani, megharanjaniandjana ranjaniin a chain was another piece that was well received.Other interesting compositions were an experimental Western note resemblingsankarabharanam, atillanainBehagof Veena Seshanna composed on Mysore Maharaja, Jayacharaja Wadayar and a Purandaradasa composition in `madhyamavati'.Gopalakrishna, Station Director, AIR, spoke about veena and the importance given to the instrument in the Indian mythology. Prof. Avula Manjulatha, Vice-Chancellor, Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University, was the chief guest and honoured the visiting artistes. Rallabandi Kavita Prasad presided.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032300270300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032300270301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGOOD TEAMWORK Vipanchi Balaga', a team of five women veena players from Karnataka during their performance.
p14
ss.