(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA delectable fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIOur ancient composers are great, no doubt. But, contemporary composers are no less in their ability to blend devotion with beauty, be it Tamil, Sanskrit or Telugu. Nityasree Mahadevan gave proof to this during her concert on "Anrum Inrum" at Harvey Kumaraswamy Kalyanamandapam as a part of the five-day music festival organised by Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha, Tirupur. Nityasree certainly knows how to present a delectable fare.Nityasree began with Lalgudi's varnam in Charukesi, `Innum En Manamariyadhavar Pol.' She gave a brief introduction on each  composers whose work she had taken up that day, which  was very interesting and useful.She took great care in giving due  credit to the  old composers like Purandaradasa (Rama Rama rama-Vasantha), Shyama Sastri (Parvathi ninnu-Galhada), Tyagaraja (Ganamurthe-Ganamurthi), Dikshithar (Akhilandeswari -Dwijavanthi) and Swathi Thirunal (Ramarama Guna seema-Simmendramadyamam) by rendering their kritis.There were popular pieces such as `Theeratha Vilayattuppillai' `Shanmuga Kandanum' and `Bho Shambo.' `Rasathil Uyarndha Rasam Entha Rasam' set in Ragamalika was highly enjoyable as she enumerated the different kinds of rasams and concluded that it was Samarasam that was the greatest of all.Her alapana of Simmendramadyamam had class and the accompanying artists, M. A. Krishnaswami on the violin, I. Sivakumar on the mridangam and G. Sridhar Kumar on the kanjira were at their best.Brisk presentationSanjay Subramanian's  concert was a feast to the discerning rasika.  His Bilahari alapana was a connoisseur's delight and his presentation of Pattanam Subramania Iyer's `Paridanamichithe' was traditional and majestic.Karaikkudi Mani, the veteran mridangist, known as Laya Simham, excelled himself during the tani avarthanam. Amrit, the young kanjira player braved the challenges with courage. Chandramouli's violin glistened through out the concert.For the rasikasSudha Raghunathan did full justice to the adoration she got from the audience.  On the eve of Ramanavami, she presented songs on Rama for nearly two hours and honoured the listener's choice after that.  When she presented `Bhavayami Raghuramam,' the Ramayana Ragamalika by Swathi Thirunal, it kept the audience spellbound.Vittal Ramamurthy on the violin, Skanda Subramanian on the mridangam and Raman on the morsing gave able support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/13/stories/2005051300360200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/13/images/2005051300360201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSPELL-BINDING: Sudha Raghunathan
p14
ss.