(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe magic of teamwork
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKIf true music is to awaken its higher purpose, the spontaneity of the artiste's elegant expression and the response of the listeners have to provide it. This happens when the musician gets completely absorbed in the aura of ragas and kirtanas he handles.When his aim is the blending of sampradaya with inspiring creativity, the performance gains both sparkle and substance. It is this kind of sangita that defines his place in the music field.The recital of Flute Ramani in the memorial day celebration of mridangam vidwan M. N. Kandaswamy Pillai emphasised that training and tradition could still stir and scintillate. This aspect was the teamwork of the accompanists Nagai Muralidharan (violin), Vellore Ramabhadran (mridangam), E. M. Subramaniam (ghatam), each one completely committed to classicism. Their contribution was composed with poised restraint. A good performance like Ramani's and his team made the rasikas realise that each time an ensemble of raga, song and laya was presented there were more subtleties and sensitivities to be sensed.The curtain raiser of the concert was the Gowlipantu kirtana, "Tera Thee Yaga Raadha". There was in this piece the luxuriance of sweetness and softness.One was struck by the angelic simplicity that Tyagaraja has imparted to this song which was played with the devotion that it deserved.The following item was "Nadopasana" in Begada. Ramani got completely involved in the beautiful and fabulous richness of this song.Earlier, the raga alapana of Begada was framed with the characteristic shades and nuances. The response, Nagai Muralidharan's vinyasa of the raga suggested that deeper values of music mattered to him more than hackeneyed phrasings.Excellent expositionThepiece-de-resistancewas Kharaharapriya. Ramani's bhani, vidwat and musical ideals were in equal proportion and this combination made for the excellence of his exposition. The kirtana, "Chakkani Raja Margamu," was well in tune with the earlier alapana, the spacing and range of which were enticing. He bestowed on it all the solid graces. Nagai Muralidharan's vision of Kharaharapriya stimulated the lyrical direction of his manodharma. He brought out the dignity and graces of the raga in full measure.Before this song, Ramani played a beautiful Varali and the song, "Seshachala Nayakam" in which the violinist was a willing partner to stress its elegance.Vellore Ramabhadran's capacity in unfolding the gentle rhythm masked his deep spring of laya and vidwat. His tani with the ghatam artiste, deceptively simple, was charming. The kutcheri, on the whole, was elevated and pleasant.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072102440600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.