(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VForever fresh and regaling
p3
sVnews
p4
VMEERA SHIRODKARRecently the audience at the Sri Satya Sai International Centre  was regaled by a rich performance by the legendary vocalist Kishori Amonkar. Organised by the Samagam and Bhilwara group, the programme truly lived up to its promise. She rendered a beautiful performance that left all spellbound.A slightly delayed start and rather lengthy intermission did little to dampen the enthusiasm of her admirers and followers, who enjoyed the performance, which stretched late into the night.The veteran  opened her recital with raga Yaman Kalyan with a bada khayal set in Vilambit Ek tala.The traditional bandish "Mo mann lagan lagi..." mesmerised everyone.The traditional and rich alap and bol alap (vistaar) extensions with minute swar play inmandraandmadhyasaptaks(lower and middle octaves) had everyone swaying.She had able vocal accompaniment from her student Nandini Bedekar, with Gurinder on the tanpura.  Choosing to take a violinist, Milind Raykar, as asangatkaar(accompanist) added refreshing charm to the recital. As did the unfailing notes of the harmonium by Suyog Kundalkar, well supported by Pradeep Dikshit on the tabla.She interacted freely and interspersed her recital with her observations and comments. Though she was critical of the way the audience moved in and out during her singing, her remark,"classical music is the development of swaras from the start to the end," was profound and relevant.Different approachThe vilambit (slow) khayal was followed by a  soulful rendition of the drut khayal bandish "Sakhi ayri aali piya bin.... " The movement of the bandish set in Addha tala was slower and different from the usual approach towards faster tempo or drut gayaki. A lively tarana, "Tana derena derena tadare dani..." marked the interval.She resumed with raga Bageshri, changing the mood and lilt of the evening. Her slow tempo bandish "Kaun gat bhayi" flowered and slowly meandered picturesquely through each note mellifluously. The dreamlike aura then flowered into a bouquet of exquisite taans, gamak and laykaari of the highest  order. Her creative best was the "Aeri e mein kaise ghar jaoon", which was romantic and nostalgic, very reminiscent of her tutelage  under the great Moghubai Kurdikar, her mother and guru.The taste and euphoria had barely been absorbed when  in conclusion she sang the evergreen "Babul Mora" immortalised as such by the great K.L. Sehgal. This was very different and may have surprised the standard listener. An attempt with a freshened approach, with the  idea to  stay away from the stereotyped rendering. This was a Bhairavi to hold close to one's heart. The thumri was emotive and bespoke  nostalgia and karuna. Although  thelaggior continuous filler play of tabla accompaniment for this piece could have been better, Kishoriji held sway with her high notes delineating the distance  and pathos of parting.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/15/stories/2006091501490200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/15/images/2006091501490201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMESMERISING! Kishori Amonkar at the concert.
p14
ss.