(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA thorough performance
p3
sVnews
p4
VA two-day instrumental music festival was held to remember the contribution of the violin wizard Mysore Chowdaiah at the Jaganmohan Palace, Mysore, under the aegis of Sangeetha Kalanidhi T. Chowdaiah Trust. Chitraveena performance by N. Ravikiran teamed with Mysore Nagaraj on violin was a remarkable instrumental ecstasy. His dexterous rendition and a thorough understanding has given him a special place in the world of music. An excellent blend of creative svarakalpana, the flourish with which he moved from one octave to the other were astounding. Mysore Nagaraj on violin with equal expertise and Umayalapuram Shivaraman on the mridanga made the concert an excellent one. Giridhara Udupa on ghatam was another rising star of the concert. The composition of Shyamashastri ("Mayamma") in raga Natakuranji delineating the complex structure of this Karuna-Bhakti pradhana raga was rapturous. Starting with a varnam in raga Begade followed by ragas Shubapanthuvarali, Kedaragoula were rendered with precision and perfection. The listeners were elated by the reverberating nada of the instrumental bliss.The trio concert at the same venue by H.K. Venkataram (violin), Ravikiran (flute), and Ashwini Anand (veena) was joyful. Beginning with Thyagarja's pancharatna ("Jagadanandakaraka"), the artistes took up the composition "Pranamamyaham Sri Gouri Sutam" followed by "Sogasuga Mridanga Talamu" (raga Sriranjini) and "Sharavana Bhava" (Kunthalavarali) without much constituents of professionalism.The notable part of the concert was "O Rangashayi" in Kamboji and was impressive.However, the comprehensive expression of this ghana raga needed more creativity in delineation of the raga bhava and svarakalpana. Umayalapuram on mridanga and Giridhar Udupa on ghatam provided adequate support.The annual Purandara and Tyagaraja aradhana organised at Veene Seshanna Bhavana by Ganabharati Sangeetha Sabha was an appreciable effort to encourage young aspirants. The devotional music performance by Revati Sharma was pleasing to the ears with a good selection of Dasa Sahitya. Archana Bennur's concert remained mediocre. H.M. Sindu on violin and Radesh on mridanga gave adequate support to both the concerts.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/10/stories/2006021003280300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/10/images/2006021003280301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VECSTATIC Ravikiran's academic approach to music gives him a coveted place in the Carnatic world
p14
ss.