(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPromising fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARPraphulla Sunder's vocal concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram was an outstanding example of rich talent and even richer voice not being put to appropriate exercise.The failure lies in the pursuit of popularity and praise in predilection to melody, classicism and fidelity.It is common to notice among the up and coming artistes thatmanodharma sanguithais given least import and, efforts are always on in trying the most unwanted.Praphulla is no exception. Take for instanceneraval, which is the live wire of creative music. In the concert she seldom attempted it except on one occasion. Thealapanawas inane with no design or plan andswarakalpanaa futile staging. She has the doubtless merit of excellentsrutisense that marked a score in her concert. The selection of the items too could have been better.Coordination errorsSaveri varnamled the way tomahaganapathiminnaatai, and later toteliyaleru ramaindhenuka. A lengthyalapanaofkalyani, with ineffective wandering showed the way to Thyagaraja'samma ravamma.Although the common listener does not observe in such situations, the end point ofswarakalpanaatthamarasa dalanetriwas messy between the singer and the violinist.Enthamuddu enthasogasuinbindumaliniwas reasonably good.Niravadhisiukhadainravichandrikawas a welcome change.The selection ofvaralithereafter was judicious.Ka va vaof Shivan came off well.Kharaharapriyawas chosen as the mainragafor the evening and thekrithi, pakkala nilabadiwas chosen for theraga. Both theneravalandswarakalpanafor the song was just average. The concert ended up with athillana.Young Peri Thyagaraju, the disciple of Peri Sriramamurthy accompanied on the violin and he evidently needs more experience, which can be obtained by practicing with a vocalist.Nevertheless, he did contribute sufficient melody in terms of clarity and precision.A. Srinivas, the disciple of Lakshminarayana Raju who accompanied on the mridangam has to go a long way. Basically he has to bear in mind that percussion is played not only to rhythm but also to the built-in decoration of thekrithi. Change of rhythmic patterns within the framework of the setthalafor a song is vital.The concert was good in parts although young Praphulla has enormous scope to come out as a renowned artiste.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/27/stories/2006012701470300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/27/images/2006012701470301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPraphulla Sunder
p14
ss.