(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHis Master's new Voice
p3
sVnews
p4
VANJANA RAJANWe are also trying to develop a health insurance programme for artistes. S. ChattopadhyayM.S. Subbulakshmi, it is said, never recorded for any company other than EMI, known in India as The Gramophone Company of India Limited. In recent years it has become SaReGaMa India Limited. Whatever the name or the vicissitudes of the company, what could have made a sought after artiste like MS want to adhere so loyally to one record label? In the words of Subroto Chattopadhyay, Managing Director, Sa Re Ga Ma, "We must have done something right."But the company also apparently did some things not quite right. Today the mantle of champion of classical music is worn by others. As for film music, the company that recorded the music for the first song in a Hindi film,Alam Ara, in 1931, has been overtaken by later entrants who hold the rights to the music of the latest blockbusters. As the music industry became more competitive over the last few decades, with new technology revolutionising the way music was heard, stored and exchanged, and piracy an ever-present threat, Sa Re Ga Ma became just one of the many music makers around, no longer, seemingly, a force to reckon with.But a company that has been recording Indian artistes since 1902 cannot be easily written off. The shareholders, the Chairman and Vice Chairman, says Chattopadhyay, have mandated him and his team to "reinvent it in every way."Heritage companyTo do this it was necessary to not merely introspect but inspect the stocks and strengths of this unusual entity. Calling it a "heritage" company, Chattopadhyay explains, "We had the pedigree. We were listed on the stock exchange. And when EMI handed over the keys and left (in 1985), RPG ring fenced and protected the assets, including the studios at Dum Dum. We decided to digitise."With a database of 23,000 artistes and a potentially huge market, the aim is to become "a destination company for artistes." To achieve this, he emphasises, there is a need for "complete transparency" in dealings. Compiling all available data, the company took a decision that was revolutionary by current industry standards. "We started paying monthly royalty."As the first cheques went out, several came back because some artistes had moved house, others had died. Succession certificates, new addresses meant a "cleaned up database". Some cheques were for as little as Rs.2 and 3, and "people screamed," he relates zestfully. That made his team think about "why some tracks are not moving".There is no question, however, of going back on the system of monthly royalty to the earlier "ad hocism". And since it is a listed company, he reiterates, it has to pay whatever amount is due at the time. Some 2000 artistes are still untraceable, while 12,800 are receiving royalty statements, and 9000 are dead. For these, succession certificates are being sought.Some companies send their artistes "negative statements," claiming that no tracks have been sold. Transparency is the key to tackling such a problem. "We are investing a lot of money into software for this," he says, adding, "We are very ambitious. We hope to make it a portal for entertainment. All the content will be digitised. When we market it, everything will be logged." The portal is still in the experimental stages.The hope is that through example and marketing performance, artistes will "gravitate" towards Sa Re Ga Ma. It is all right to woo the successful performers. What about the young strugglers no one has heard about, who end up paying for their own recordings and then handing over the master to a record label for no payment, only to be told their tracks are not selling?Evaluation"No question," declares Chattopadhyay. "You can put it on record." But he does not want to "get involved in the politics of the creative community," so he needs to bring together a group of qualified people to evaluate musical skills. It will take some months yet, and for some reason, he is "more hopeful of doing this kind of thing in the South".Sa Re Ga Ma will be into film music and festivals too, as these are necessary to creating markets. Also, there is a plan to launch the artiste on the wireless. It is heartening to hear him say, "But the objective is not to have bonded labourers." Illustrating that "it's not just about dollars and cents," he says, "We are also trying to develop a health insurance programme for artistes."With a mission statement, "Ethics before profit," Chattopadhyay sums it up: "My view is, if Narayanamurthy could do it, we can too."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092201290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092201290302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDOGGED EFFORT In a competitive music industry, Sa Re Ga Ma is working for a professional environment.
p14
ss.