(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTraditional repertoire
p3
sVnews
p4
VSharada Cultural Trust had organised a vocal performance by N. Subbalakshmi at Srimad Andavan Ashramam, Mareddpally. She was accompanied by R. Dinakar on the violin, A.V. Manikantan on the mridangam and Tiruchy Murali on the ghatam.Traditional fareThroughout the concert Subbalakshmi stuck to tradition. She started off with the invigorating Abhogi Varnam, Yevari Bhodhana and followed it up with an invocatory piece in Hamsadwani decorating it with long swaras. Swaminatha Paripalayasumam in the raga Naatai came next. The percussionists followed Subbalakshmi's sangathis beautifully and accentuated the listening pleasure of the kriti. She quickly closed the song without the customary chittaswaram or any kalpana swaras and moved it with a very dignified alapana of the raga Madhyamavathi. This raga is always a pleasing choice as most of the audava ragas are and more so as it yields itself effortlessly to the imagination of the artiste. She chose Naadhupai of Tyagaraja and executed it nicely.A quick Marugelara O Raghava of Tyagaraja in Jayantasri followed. Shanmukapriya was then picked for a detailed delineation by Subbalakshmi. Her youthful approach to this exquisite raga was appreciable. The majestic kriti of Pattanam Subbramanya Iyer, Marivere, was the next piece selected by Subbalakshmi, which she rendered quite well. The neraval in Sannuthanga was energetic and was followed by long winding swaras enriching the Shanmukapriya-filled atmosphere. Subbalakshmi sang the song Kadanakuthuhalam in the raga Kadanakuthuhalam which felt exactly like Raghuvamsa Sudha.The favourite choice of youngsters, Todi was the taken up as the centre piece by Subbalakshmi. She started off slowly and steadily gained ground to probe its various facets at leisure. She sang Karthikeya Kangeya, the grand kriti of Tamil Tyagayya, Sri Papanasam Sivan with a good deal of Bhava. The neraval at Maal Maruga Shanmuga Muruga Guha was pleasing and followed by long kalpana swaras. The percussion duet between Manikandan and Murali though a bit too stretched was very pleasant and enjoyable. Subbalakshmi closed the concert with Bho Shambo in Revathi preceded by a small vrutham.Endowed with an energetic voice along with the zeal to perform and excel, Subbalakshmi has the mettle to make it big on the concert stage. It is reassuring to know that we have such talent amidst us and Sabhas like the Sharada Cultural Trust that are eager to present them.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/05/stories/2010110550560300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/05/images/2010110550560301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEnriching recital N. Subbalakshmi.
p14
ss.