(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA dedicated musician
p3
sVnews
p4
VK. PRADEEPEven before his  debut in films, Jaison J. Nair had made a mark as a sensitive music director. To a young generation ready to swing and swoon on unimaginative imitations of global music, Jaison introduced them to  smooth vocals and sweet melodies. The songs in the film `Aanachandam,' have made avid listeners sit up and take notice of this talent.Jaison's music is not accidental improvisation. It is  the result of accumulated yearnings, dreams and wisdom of a dedicated musician. His compositions in the film and in albums are an intermingling of colours, scents and light in the form of rich tones.Urge to make it big"Like anyone who ventures  into the world of music, I must have also felt the urge to make it big in films. But, frankly, it was not something that I was really worried about. My life is filled with music and only on rare, vacant moments did this longing raise its head. Perhaps, it was the instant recognition this tag gave that made me think occasionally about a career in films. Otherwise, I was quite satisfied with the work I had," says Jaison, who hails from Kanakary, near Kottayam.It was one such work of his that  led to his big break in films."Sukumaran, a friend of director Jayaraj sir, was responsible for this. He had listened to the album of poems `Kavyageethigal,' and asked Jayaraj sir to listen to it. One day, I got a call from the director asking me to compose tunes for a few situations, which he narrated over the phone.  I composed  four tunes for each of the five situations. Then,  I rushed to meet Jayaraj sir at his Kottayam residence. I played him the tunes and sang the songs and  I got the job."Unlike many debutants Jaison was fortunate. `Aanachandam' has some colourful musical situations that gave the music director scope to innovate. And more importantly, the director gave him absolute freedom in his work.A free hand"I was given a free hand and that was something. Jayaraj sir's only request was to consider a few young singers such as Akhila, Naznin and Rakesh Brahmanandan.  I was given a fixed amount of money with which I had to arrange the singers, do the orchestration and the recording. I was surprised at the absolute confidence reposed on me by Jayaraj sir. Although it was break even in the end, I was thrilled by the results."The songs by M.G. Sreekumar, Madhu Balakrishnan, G. Venugopal, V. Devanand and the youngsters have topped the charts. A devotional by Bhavyalakshmi, which completes the album, also stands out. "Bhavyalakshmi is a seasoned Carnatic vocalist who has made her debut as a playback singer with this song. Actually, it was composed for the puja of the film. It does not feature in the film but we included it in the album."Jaison's forte is a solid Carnatic base. A Ganabushanam from the R.L.V. College for Music and Fine Arts, Thripunithura, and Ganapraveena from the Swati Tirunal College for Music, Thiruvananthapuram, Jaison started off with Carnatic concerts. He started Moksha School of Music at Ettumannur, which has more than 350 students."This school is my lifeblood. We train students in vocal, Indian and Western instruments, classical dance, yoga etc. My wife, Krishna, helps me in the administration of the school. Nothing is more satisfying than teaching and listening to the children performing."Jaison's foray into the music industry was first as a singer. He sang three songs for Sunny Stephen, along with K.J. Jesudas, and K.S. Chitra for the album `Tapasya.' His first effort in music direction was for a devotional album `Prasadam.' Since then Jaison has been a popular director in this  field."There were some interesting projects like the instrumental album `Monsoon' for Invis, patriotic songs with children of Moksha, `Malabar Mystique,' which won the national tourism award and `Kavyageethigal.' There was one letter that I got from a connoisseur who wrote that the music for N. N. Kakkad's `Saphalmee Yatra' haunted him. He wrote that he listened to it every night as it triggered many memories, making his mind lighter, nostalgic. That letter is one of my precious possessions, a big award."A good composer is slowly discovered. Now it is over to Jaison.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/08/stories/2006090801180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/08/images/2006090801180301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSCORING A HIT: Jaison J. Nair introduces young listeners to smooth vocals and sweet melodies.
p14
ss.