(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn evening of pleasing music
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARKamala is a seasoned artiste, both as a performer and a guru and one who has carried the purity and chastity of tradition and classicism in musicSri Chandrasekharendra Sangeetha Educational Society (SCSES), which conducts an annual music festival every year on a grand scale, has chosen to include more concerts during the year. The society has planned to conduct concerts every quarter to provide more opportunities to artistes.Laudable renditionThe first of such concerts was by Kamala Ramani last week. Kamala is a seasoned artiste, both as a performer and a guru and one of the few contemporary musicians who has carried the purity and chastity of tradition and classicism in music. In her singing there is expressiveness, suppleness, elegance and love of delicate detail but yet, there is sober simplicity of structural forms. That by itself is classic form of utterance. This helps her to keep away from histrionic exhibition. The plan has not only the substantial merit of comprehension, perspicuity, and precision, but that the language of it is inconspicuously excellent. In essence, she is different from most present day singers.The command she has on the facade ofsrutiprevails strong and striking. Her vast vision of raga helps her analyse the aspect in attractive pastel shades, both in depth and width; in addition her confidence to unravel a difficult thesis turns out to be effortless. The concert had all the elements of a full-fledged and engaging event and the three-hour programme was relished by everyrasika. Choice items and a range ofthalaskept the tempo.Commencing with thebegada varnam, Kamala sang the popular composition of Swathi Thirunal,deva deva, inmayamalavagowla. A shortalapanaof the ragaabhogiled tonannubrova nikintha thamasamafollowed by a set of crispswarakalpana.Lathangiraga was rather sketchy but thekrithi, mariveredikkevvaruinkhanda chapuadded colour.Srishankara guruivaraminnagaswaravaliwas the ideal choice thereafter.The highlight of the concert wasthodi. The raga, however good, fell short of fineness. Thekrithikaddannavariki kadduhad all the embellishments and trimmings and theneravalandswarakalpanastayed unfaltering. Viewed holistically, it was palpable that the presentation was the result of relentless- and may even be excessive trial of the art as a whole, and the programme, in particular. Ideas were therefore crystallised and not free for manipulation. In that sense inventiveness looked rather austere. Young Thyagaraju who accompanied on the violin was enthusiastic and contributed his might. Being exposed more these days, he is attaining greater confidence with intellectual eagerness for new ideas and is bound to prove a good violinist in times to come. Kapa Srinivasa Rao on the mridangam extended a fine support and hissarwalaghuplaying in tune with thekritisthat were rendered was admirable.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/15/stories/2006091502000300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/15/images/2006091502000301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN CONCERT Kamala Ramani at the performance.
p14
ss.