(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn a nostalgic trip
p3
sVnews
p4
VD. K. Pattammal, the Carnatic music doyenne of the 20th century, earned the sobriquet `paattammal' for her excellence and erudition in an art form in which many are equal, but some are more equal than others &#151;  D. K. Pattammal belongs to the latter category.In these four CDs, Pattammal has shared with rasikas nostalgic memories of her life and illustrious career. She speaks about how she concentrated on propagating the unique compositions of Dikshitar that she was privileged to learn from Justice T. L. Venkatrama Iyer, an authority on Dikshitar songs. She also explains  the circumstances, which brought her under the musical fold of Ambi Dikshitar.Nithyashree Mahadevan, one of the most popular exponents of Carnatic music in the contemporary field, is a worthy scion of the Pattammal tradition being her granddaughter and disciple. She describes Pattammal as one of the titans of Carnatic music, yet as a human being very simple at heart, and not exactly wordly wise. Her reminiscences of her special bondage to the veteran are interesting and enjoyable, particularly when Pattammal ate the ice cream and wanted to return the cone to the parlour.Dikshitar's "Ganapate'' in Kalyani, Ramanathapuram Srinivasa Iyengar's ``Parthasarathe'' in Madhyamavathi embellished with competent, confident neraval and swaras, a sparkling alapana of Saveri followed by ``Sri Rajagopala' of Dikshitar are the hallmarks of Volume 1.In Volume 2, Pattammal reminisces about her guru Nayana Pillai's genius and Palghat Mani Iyer's amazing percussion vidwat, as also the greatness of the Trinity that reflects in their songs. An elucidation of Harikambhoji as a prelude to Tyagaraja's Chani Todi, Papanasam Sivan's kriti in Vasanta, a wholesome rendition of the rarely heard Sri Raga kriti of Tyagaraja, "Yukthamu Gadu''; a melting composition of Aandavan Pichai in Yadhukulakambhoji and the popular ragamalika, ``Aadu Ratte'' by Namakkal Kavignar are all sung to the perfection by Nithyashree.Guru-sishya relationshipThe guru sishya relationship between Papanasam Sivan and herself as an affectionate, personal bond that went far beyond teaching and learning parameters, says the veteran. Sivan's ``Aandavane'' in Shanmukhapriya with involved expansion of the lyrical sequence "Thandavamadum" and tidy swaras, ``Janakiramana," the only kriti of Tyagaraja in Sudha Seemanthani with facile swara improvisations in the charanam, an aesthetically developed Bhairavi alapana and Tyagaraja's "Raksha Bettare" are flawless efforts.The 4th volume comprises Nithyashree's crystal clear rendition of Patttinar' s Thamizh Virutham in Dhanyasi, Simyhendramadhyamam, Nilambari and Varali, Tyagaraja's "Buddhiradu" in Sankarabharanam, a ``Tevaram'' by Sundarar and ``Vande Mataram'' by Subramania Bharati as ragamalika tuned in mellifluent ragas, set to Adi tala that are grist to the rasika's mill.Akkarai Subbulakshmi (violin), I. Sivakumar (mridangam) and Tiruchi  Murali (ghatam) have provided ideal accompanying support. These albums would help today's generation, to get a clear picture of the dedication and assiduousness with which the diva of music, Pattammal has pursued her timeless art for long, long decades.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032400140300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.