(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrings in sync
p3
sVnews
p4
VTo encourage and promote deserving artistes of classical music who have no backup or support of any kind, and yet contribute their best without bothering about self-projection, publicity and marketing; Doordarshan (DD) has formed a classical music club.The DD Classical Music Club in collaboration with the India International Centre presented its third concert featuring an instrumental duet of sarod and sitar by Pradeep Barot and Ganesh Mohan accompanied on the tabla by Rafiuddin Sabri,  this past week.Inspired by the appreciative response of music lovers for the concept,  DD has added another segment to these concerts as a short lecture on the contemporary music scenario by some eminent person from the field of culture that will create interest and awareness of classical music amongst  music lovers.This time, the evening opened with Ram  Niwas Mirdha, Chairman,  Sangeet Natak  Akademi, endorsing the DD Classical Music Club endeavour as the need of the hour.Both the artistes of the musical evening belonged to Mumbai. Sarod exponent Pradeep Barot is groomed  by Vidushi Annapurna Devi, the daughter and disciple of the legendary Ustad Allauddin Khan, while Ganesh Mohan has learnt the sitar under  Arvind Parikh, the senior most disciple of Ustad Vilayat Khan. Taking into account the mood of the rainy season, they chose to play two popular varieties of Malhar, opening their recital with a detailed Dhrupad style alap, jod in Miyan Malhar, a raga supposed to be created by Miyan Tansen.The mandra vistar (elaboration in the lower octave) on the sitar  by Ganesh  also had the signature of his earlier Guru Pandit Manilal Nag of the Vishnupur gharana, in the glimpses of the Dhrupad ang&#8217;s deep resounding meends, while Barot epitomised the Maihar gharana characterised by leisurely alap and sparing use of ornamentation. The mutual give and take and the deep understanding of the profound raga  helped both the artistes gel well.This was followed by two compositions in raga Megh Malhar. The slow composition was set to Jhap tala of 10 beats, gradually opening the folds of the monsoon raga. Then followed  a variety of gat-todas culminating in various tihayis, while the faster Razakhani gat was set to Teen tala. There was an interesting sequence of sawal-jawab also that established instant rapport with the audience.Tabla by Rafiuddin Sabri delighted with superb accompaniment as well as several rounds of solo variations. The well structured concert concluded with a lighter dhun in Mishra Khamaj set to a lilting Dadra tala.The DD Classical Music Club concerts  were supposed to be telecast live  every second Thursday of the month, but due to unavailability of the IIC auditorium on the relevant date, the recording will be telecast on  July 10 from 7.15 to 8.30 p.m. on DD Bharati and DDK, Delhi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/06/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/06/27/stories/2008062750300200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.