(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VShower of Marathi folk  and film music
p3
sVnews
p4
VSURESH KUMARSur e Nakshatranche denewas the theme of the three-hour music performance presented by well-known artistes from Pune and Mumbai at Ravindra Bharti last weekend. Though the tickets for the event were priced high, it got a good response, mainly from the Marathi speaking people from the city.The songs sung were all composed by late Sudhir Phadke, a well-known music composer, singer, producer and director from the Marathi film industry. Sudhir Phadke's songs and compositions are loved by everyone in Maharashtra for its lyrical value and the way it is sung.The artistes, along with legendry singer Ravindra Sathe did full justice to the concert. An important aspect of the concert was the limited use of the orchestra that still gave it a feel- good impact. The orchestra consisted of one a tabla, an harmonium, flute, violin, and a keyboard. The emphasis was more on how the artiste sang the song and the focus was on keeping the lyrical value intact rather than drowning it with loud accompaniments.The concert began withVande Mataramas an invocation song, followed by many popular numbers from various Marathi movies and few old light classical songs that are remembered even today.Ravindra Sathe sang favourite songs likeVitthala tu Veda Kumbhar, Zala Maher Pandharinath, Ha Maza Marg EklaandTinhi Lok Anadane.Savri Datar sang some beautiful numbers, which evoked good response from the audience. Her rendition ofLavanisongJali Mandi Pikali KaravandaandSavlacha Rang Tuzawere the highlights and received encore requests from the packed auditorium.Gayatri Sidye and Pragna Deshpande sang popular numbers, which also got encore requests. Jitendra Abhyankar and Pramod Ranade were the other two male singers who sang, well-composed numbers likeSanth Vahate Krushna Bai, Samadhi Sadna, Thoch Chandrama Nabhath.All the artistes together sang few verses from the `Geet Ramayan', the soulful composition of Sudhir Phadke, which is again the most revered and very popular composition amongst Maharashtrians.The singers were given apt support by Rajendra Sabnis on the tabla, Niranjan Phanse on the rhythms, Ajit Soman on the flute, Charusheela on the Violin, Anay Gadgil on the key board, and music arranger and harmonist, Narendra Chiplunkar.Yet another highlight of the programme was the excellent compeering of the show by Vinita Hemant Apte from Pune. The rendition of Jogiya poem by the compere was so emotional that it not only brought cheers from the audience but also tears.It was indeed a show par excellence and while the Rain Gods pleased the city with showers, there were showers of soulful and popular songs of Marathi inside the auditorium.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092201790300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092201790301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLYRICAL VALUE  The impressive music performance.
p14
ss.