(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRhythmic beats
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIYella brought into view a total of nine mridangams, each tuned for a particular note.Any good activity begun on the day of Ugadi is bound to keep you in good cheer throughout the year, our elders tell us. Hence, we are urged to do good things. Well, it was definitely a good move that the revamped Ravindra Bharati was opened on Ugadi by Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in the company of Minister for Culture, M. Satyanarayana Rao.But amidst all the festive spirit, the man who made news was Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna. It was publicised that the renowned singer would perform for the programme titledMurali, Swara Vasantham. Satyanarayana Rao was trying to bring Balamurali to Hyderabad for this event. But there appeared to be a miss between the cup and the lip. The buzz was that Balamurali was travelling to a Gulf nation for a programme. So, his slot was filled, rather hurriedly, by renowned mridangavidwanYella Venkateswara Rao. His solo play of a different kind was a treat. Malladi Chandrasekhara Sastry'sPanchanga Sravanamand a poetic symposium by some known scholars of the twin cities marked the Ugadi special event.Yella Venkateswara Rao, who headed the music faculty of Telugu university until recently and is among the senior artistes of All India Radio, evolved some musical themes for his percussion show in his attempt to give solo status to mridangam. One of them was to give picture of raga and also akritiin it. For this purpose, he brought into view a total of nine mridangams, each tuned for a particular note. His mridangam performance proved to be a big draw. The theatre was filled to the brim with festival audience.He came up withKeeravaniraga structure, set inAdi Thalam, Madhya Laya. He had keyboard and flute support. Ramana Murthy on the ghatam and Ghantasala Satya Sai on the morsing also accompanied him. Yella also added a bit of his ownChollu Kattu(rhythmic syllables) while playing the mridangam. He drew repeated applause for this exercise. The audience experienced a different kind of `sound and fury', with Yella accelerating rhythm.The second part of the celebrations started with a Carnatic-Hindustanijugalbandiof Lavanya Latha (Carnatic) and Lalitha Kurulkar (Hindustani). The two vocalists presentedHamsadhwaniin both the styles,Hindolamand its equivalentMalkaunsin Hindusthani andMadhyamavathiand its Hindusthani equivalent,Megh.Anil Kumar on the violin, Ananda Rajyalakshmi on the veena, Umavenkatesh on the flute, P.V.Ramanamurthy on the mridangam and Jaikishore on the tabla gave the orchestral for the show.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/07/stories/2006040701720300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/07/images/2006040701720301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVIRTUOSO PERFORMANCE Yella Venkateswara Rao thumps a rhythm on his mridangam
p14
ss.