(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical offering to a royal composer
p3
sVnews
p4
VK.C. ASOKSYNCHRONISED TONES: Bombay Sisters C. Saroja and  C. Lalitha were conferred the title `Gayakaratnam.'The 12-day musical festival held by Swati Tirunal Sangeeta Sabha, Thiruvanthapuram, to celebrate Swati Tirunal Jayanti and the Sabha's anniversary, concluded with a concert by the Bombay Sisters, C. Saroja and C. Lalitha. The Sabha conferred the title `Gayakaratnam' on the sisters.Kalyani (a Navaratri kriti, `Sree vageeswari..') and Todi (tanam) were the dominant ragas in their concert. While Saroja elaborated on Kalyani, Lalitha concentrated on Todi. After an erudite ragam and tanam in Todi, the sisters sang pallavi (`Devi sree tripura sundaree deena daya pati') in Tisra tripuda (Khanda nada).The Swati ragamalika (`Bhavaye sree gopalam..' in Nata Goula, Arabhi, Varali, and Sree had the audience in raptures.The other pieces included `Sree kumara nadaralaya... ' in Atana and `Deva deva kalayameete... ' in Mayamalavagoula. Usha Rajagopal (violin), Palladam Ravi (mridangam) and H. Sivaramakrishnan (ghatom) gave a superb instrumental accompaniment.Selection of kritisVocalist Sankaran Namboori impressed the audience with his selection and sequencing of kritis in his concert on the tenth day.Thealapanaof Pantuvarali (`Paripalaya Saraseeruha lochana... '), Sankarabharanam (`Rajeevaksha baro krishna... '), Sudhadhanyasi (`Samodam chintayami... ') and the main piece in Simhendramadhyamam (`Rama rama... ') were vibrant with racysangatis.Themanodharma swarassung also followed a flawless pattern. `Devanike pati ganga... ' in Darbarikanada, `Jagadeesa... ' in Nadanamakriya and `Bhajatu murali' in Sindubhairavi were the tukkadas after the thani session. S.R. Vinu (violin), B. Harikumar (mridangam) and P. L. Sudheer (ghatom) built a good rapport with the vocalist throughout the concert.Flautist Mysore Chandan Kumar's flute recital was  was accompanied by Nellai Raveendran, Thiruvananthapuram Surendran and P.L. Sudheer on the violin, mridangam and ghatom, respectively.The flautist brought out different shades of Manirang rag (`Jaya jaya padmana... '), before switching to the main Kalyani ( `Pankachalochana...' ). The concert  also included kritis such as `Mahaganapatim... '(Nata), `Gopalaka pahimam... ' (Revagupti) and `Saramaina... '(Behag).Full-throatedalapanaAccompanied by S.R. Vinu on the violin and Sadgurucharan on the mridangam, Aleppey Venkatesan sang on the ninth day of the festival. His full-throatedalapanaof Kanada and Hindolam extended beyond the expected duration.  The ragam-tanam-pallavi session in multiple ragas used a complicated tala (Mishrajathi jambu, tisra nada).The 12-day long music fest was appealing to the rasikas but for the inadequate sound system that distracted the performers and the listeners alike.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060200240200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.