(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLiterary works rich in music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe first three hymns  belong to Thirugnanasambandar, the youngest composer,  who accounts for a massive output &#8212; 136 padhigams-469 songs &#8212; between the age of three and 16. Sambandar is known to have used the maximum number of Panns (tunes). Prameela Gurumurthi rendered his famous song Thodudaya Seviyan.Prameela spoke of ThiruezhuKootru Irukkai, a marvel in words &#8212; which when actually written down takes the shape of the chariot &#8212; a remarkable example of chitra kavithuvam. This is an inseparable set of 48 lines, the recitation of which is believed to fetch the same benefits as thje recitation of the entire Thevaram.  Sambandar also used the Thiru Maalai Matru style &#8212; poetry in the form of an ideal garland (Maalai) where one can trace neither the beginning nor the end, the artful use of the palindrome loaded with meaning and a copious flow of lilting rhyming structures (edhugai).The evolution of the veena from the yaazh to obviate difficulties in playing various speeds was mentioned. Mudhra inclusion, Prameela said, started even here and Sambandar&#8217;s last stanza had this feature interwoven into the text of the song.Hymns four to six belong to Thirunavukkarasar, a Thaandaga Chathurar, who embraced Jainism - not without reason - and then reverted to Saivism. The Jains were masters in linguistics and logic and theirs was a highly intellectual religion. Their contribution to Tamil literature is considerable.  Arasar had a severe stomach ailment, which got  cured by the sacred ash, and by way of internal evidence his first hymn Kootraagina Varu in Kollippann (Navroj) narrates his pain, and pleasure when it is cured. His other types of compositions were Thiruthaandagam, Thiru Virutham and Thiru Nerisai. The last is in the form of chants - straight notes - and hence the name Nerisai which is rendered in Shudhangam without the thala. His Maasil Veenayum, reply to those who refuse to see God, is one of the most famous compositions.Thirumurai Seven has songs of Sundaramurthy Nayanar (Thiruppattu), which mentions the musical instruments that were in vogue during the period and has many compositions in various Panns like Indhalam, Thakkesi, Gandharam, and Senthuruthi (Madhyamavathi). Nayanar has taken the liberty to address Lord Shiva using derogatory verses (nindha sthuthi), and in singing Meelaa Adimai questions the indifference of God and blesses him. (Vazhndhu Podhere). He lost his sight, which was later restored at Kanchi and Tiruvarur. Also known as Van Thondar. His first song is the famous Pitha Pirai Soodi. The eighth is Manikkavaasagar&#8217;s Thiruvachagam, a collection that is said to melt hearts  Prameela observed that Thiruvasagam is sung mainly in Mohanam. Thiru Ammanai is another category where Ammanai is a type of game that is played.Thiru Isaipa ( Pallaandu of Chendanar),  Thirumoolar&#8217;s Thirumandhiram   a compendium of the compositions of eleven saints and  Thiruthondar Puranam (Periapuranam) of Sekkizhar complete the collection.Prameela Gurumurthi concluded with the remark that  a wealth of literature of this kind existed before the kirthanai era (5th to 12th century). She was accompanied by  Rajasekhar (violin) and Sairam (mridangam). The lecture-demonstration was organised by Sri Ranjani and held at Swamy&#8217;s Hall.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/08/stories/2008020850730600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.