(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSinging around a theme
p3
sVnews
p4
V"I'm glad that Advaita came up with the theme of Rare Ragas and Compositions, in their bi-monthly programmes. I was more than delighted to take up the assignment, the Herculean work notwithstanding," said the nonagenarian vocalist Dr. R.K. Srikantan, after his rare concert at the R.V. Dental College Auditorium, J.P.Nagar. "This is only the first part and I have a serpentine list of composers for the two more parts coming up in October and February," he added.Srikantan rues: "Present-day vidwans and vidhushis are hardly looking up rare compositions. We need to clear the dust off the shelves, take pains to study the composers and their kritis, either with books or with old tapes and reflect on the raga and sahitya bhava. A mixture of the old and the new is what good concert packaging is all about. Contemporary presentations should not be devoid of bringing in the rare gems of our saint composers.""Thematic concerts give us ample room to explain the sahitya and the fund of meaning behind the bhava. Audience can closely observe even the structural excellence in the combination of swaras and the resultant swara prayogas to determine a raga contour by our explanations. It is here that we are going one step above to create an awareness. There is nothing like educating and elevating the audience to a level where they understand more," said Srikantan before he took to the stage. But how much can you revive? "Certainly not everything. Even if a musician has sung a kriti in most sabhas for only year, he should think of a new one for the next year. With smart permutations and combinations you can have an enviable assortment." With these ideas brimming, the concert opened to an unheard varnam by Swati Tirunal in Naata raga, set to Adi Tala. Srikantan was accompanied by Manasa Nayana, along with H.K. Venkataram on the violin, Mannargudi Easwaran on the mridanga and Dayananda Mohite on the ghata.Tyagaraja's "Idi Samayamura" explained the details of the sahitya bhava ridden in the kriti. Vivardhini raga was brought to the fore with Tyagaraja's "Vinave O Manasa, before slipping into Muthuswamy Dikshitar with "Brihannayaki" in Andhali raga. The chittaswaras for Andhali explained the swara patterns better.The importance of chittaswara also comes to light here. It is a well-known fact that every varna has these enjoyable combination of swaras that highlight the course of the raga movements. This is one of the foremost advantages of the Carnatic genre of music where structured patterns and lessons explain the skeleton making up of a raga. Tyagaraja's kriti "Vidulaku Mrokkeda" set to Mayamalavagowla got a rather soothing rendition. The lyrical composition has Tyagaraja paying obeisance to the Lord, calling him the all-knowing one, and even looks upon him as someone who contains in him Lakshmi, Saraswati, Hanuman, Nandi and Narada. "Raghupathe Rama" in Sahana was yet another descriptive excellence of Tyagaraja insaralavaada samskruthaas the veteran explained. In "Tanayuni Brova" of Bhairavi raga Tyagaraja reminds his Lord that it is his duty to look after the interests of his bhaktas. "Nama Kusuma Mana" came in the mellow scales of Sri raga.RANJANI GOVINDBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080402330300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080402330301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VROOM FOR EXPLORATION R.K. Srikantan: `Thematic concerts give scope to explain the sahitya - bhava'
p14
ss.