(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCaptivating strains
p3
sVnews
p4
VA rewarding feast of music was served at the premises of Sri Kannika Parameshwari Temple, Malleshwaram, for five days under the title of Karthika Sangeetha Shubha Sandhya festival held under the joint aegis of Nadajyothi Sri Thyagarajaswamy Bhajana Sabha and Arya Vyshya Sangha. The festival was inaugurated by the well-known organiser K.N. Venkatanarayana.An auspicious start was provided by young nagaswara artiste V. Murali. He was accompanied by P.Rajagopal and K.N. Krishnamurthy on two nagaswaras and hence it became a lively and vibrant nagaswara trio recital. The trio proved that they are not only richly qualified but also seasoned artistes in their own right. Adding spice and attraction to the recital were two tavil vidwans R.Rajagopal and Ramdass Chakkarapatti on their reverberating instruments.There was a fine understanding among the trio. They worked out to a well thought out plan. And thus the melodious strains streamed in without stop. The very beginning of the concert itself was interesting. A rare varna in a captivating Sumanasaranjani raga was rendered in different speeds and nadais. This facilitated in charging the atmosphere with musicality. Both the artistes on stage and the audience aptly got warmed up. Then came another glowing krithi "Karimukha varada" set to Nata raga. The chittaiswaras and kalpanaswaras studded on to the krithi had an admirable crispness.The nagaswara trio clicked in the presentation of Reetigowla ("Janani ninuvina"), Simhendramadhyama ("Natajana") and Madhyamavathi ("Paalimchu Kamakshi") with ragalaalapanas, neraval and swaraprastaras. These ragas were rendered individually and the delineations were carried out by the trio with a remarkable expertise. The trio exhibited a praiseworthy grip over their instruments. The technique of adapting an open-air instrument to the needs of an in-house stage performance was appreciated.The concert brimmed with all the essential ingredients of a successful performance.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120101970300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.