(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt's an endless stream of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VABHINAV RAMNARAYAN"I listen more, analyse and think about the music later."  S. JanakiLife for the rasika turns on its head during music season, at once enriching, and difficult.Everyday, they get transported to the world of music only to be brought down to earth by the artrocious demands of the auto drivers.Yet these rasikas brave these difficulties and more, and attend as many concerts as they possibly can.Mr Mohan Krishnamoorthy, for instance, attends up to five `events' everyday, ranging from lecture demonstrations to dance programmes to kutcheris."I am based in Melbourne," he says, " And I come down every year for the season. I've been doing that for over fifteen years now." Mr Krishnamoorthy remembers attending six concerts a day, three days in a row a couple of years ago."This concert book is a boon to every rasika, I look at that and plan my day accordingly," he says, "And I try to go for as many kutcheris as possible."S. Janaki would not miss the lecture demonstrations. "I go for the lec-dems in the mornings, and then leave for the four `o' clock kutcheri."She says that she goes for all kutcheris with an open mind, be it a younger person performing or someone who is `almost over the hill.'"I listen more, analyse and think about the music later." The aim, she says, is to take in a lot, and observe. She says it provides valuable insights into the art of Carnatic music.And sometimes, the hectic work schedule, which has become worse over the last few years, can intervene. Mr V. V. Ramani, who has religiously followed the concert season for close to 20 years, finds that this year it has not been as easy.He says, "This year, I have not been able to attend as many concerts as I usually do." He still manages to get in one or two a day, though. "One problem with concert hopping is that some artistes take you to such fantastic high points that the next performance could be an anti-climax."Ramani's wife and his two children have also been attending the music season with the same fervour as he has, though the younger one, eleven-year-old Vaibhav complains, "Sometimes it is like they are singing a lullaby," at which point he goes to sleep. A more willing participant in the concert season is Ms Bharathi Ramasubban, who is doing her Masters in the U.K.,  but flew down for the season anyway. "My parents just booked my return ticket," she laughs. As someone who performs on and off herself, she cannot imagine not being in Chennai for the December season. "It's like part of life," she says, "You have to be here." She attends up to three concerts a day, and refuses to name any one artiste as her favourite.Others are not so particular. Mr Ramani says, "We listen to all the artistes, but some people religiously follow one particular artiste throughout the season. My uncle, T. L. Shankar, for instance, will not miss a single Ranjini-Gayathri concert."These eager rasikas make all sorts of compromises to be able to take in the entire season. Mr. Krishnamoorthy, for example, has the unenviable task of choosing between Chennai in concert season and Melbourne in peak summer &#151;  the cricket season. "If I wasn't here, I would be in Australia for the Boxing Day Test Match," he says.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010602870600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010602870605.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMohan Krishnamoorthy.  Photos: Bijoy Ghosh.
p14
ss.