(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFlamboyance in full form
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKMadurai T.N. Seshagopalan's concert for Carnatica's Bharat Sangeet Utsav was not of a kind that soothes  the senses, but one that projected  an image of a vibrant frontline artiste. His  brighas were not meant to  caress but to dazzle.An artiste, sure of his eminence, requires a soft touch, which  simply was not there.  His gifted voice  provided him a wealth of options, but he preferred  to sound spectacular. The kutcheri was constructed on substance, but aired with flamboyant  galloping skill.Seshagopalan is a titan , no doubt and richly deserves the title `Bharat Sangeet Martand' conferred on him on the occasion. He sets a high standard for himself and his voice that evening took up sportingly the challenges of his monarchic manodharma in the alapanas of Nattakurinji (`Koduthu Vaiththa Punniyavaan') and Kalyani (`Sarasija Bhava Jaaye'). Two other ragas, Sahana and Kamas  expressed through slokas,  were really ear-friendly. Sensitivity was pushed to the background in the concert, an Oothukkadu Venkata Kavi special.  It compelled more admiration  than  affection.The  solo raga versions of violinist M. Chandrasekharan were select sangatis from kritis in each raga strung as an alapana. Guruvayur Dorai (mridangam) and B.S.Purushothaman (kanjira) matched the vocalist with high-decibel accompaniment.Exaggerated sancharasRichness in magnitude and  harshness in expression marked  the contours of Bhairavi and Kedaragowla alapanas at the hands of Sanjay Subramaniam. High-flown,  typically exaggerated sancharas formed the core of the ragas. His powerful expository method and distinctly authentic quality have endeared him to the rasikas. Every phrase was stamped with his  imprint.`Anu Dinamunu' (Begada), `Rama Lokaabhirama' (Bhairavi) `Ennadu Joothuno' (Kalavathi) and `Saraguna Paalimpa' (Kedaragowla) were the kirtanas rendered in the same interpretative mould as the alapanas.  The way he breathed life into the ragas and songs set him apart as a notable musician. The heavy burden he laid on his voice provided a measure of fascination.The solo versions of Bhairavi and Kedaragowla by violinist Varadarajan were sound enough to present an overall vividness of the ragas. There was competence, method and purpose in the sancharas that were  satisfying in their  own way.The tani avartanam between Arun Prakash (mridangam) and K.V. Gopalakrishnan (kanjira) was embedded with perceptive laya patterns, stimulating and pleasing to the ear.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/10/stories/2006111002270400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/10/images/2006111002270402.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSanjay Subramaniam.
p14
ss.