(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VScholarly exposition
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeteran exponent of Carnatic music, on violin, Komanduri Krishnamacharyulu (retired staffer, All India Radio , Visakhapatnam) rendered a scintillating and scholarly recital in the Sabha Vedika of Sri Sankarmatham, last week.He was felicitated along with being adorned with a `Simhatalaatam' (bracelet made of gold) from the management committee of themathamThe title ofNaadasudhanidhiwas conferred upon him.Born in a family of musicians known for their taste for pure  classicism, Komanduri had his first lessons on violin from his father, Venkata Ranganayakulu and scriptures from his mother Tiruvengalamma.Subsequently, after honing his skills further under the guidance of Saride Subba Rao, he joined the M.R. Govt. Music and Dance College at Viziangaram and had the privilege of being a direct disciple of the violin maestro Dwaram Narasinga Rao Naidu . Later he preferred to settle at Visakhapatnam and got enough opportunity to accompany almost all stalwart musicians--late M.S. Subbu Lakshmi, Mangalampalli, D.K. Pattammal and the likes. He stands hailed as a good teacher the same.Komanduri started his concert with theKedaragoula varnamon an absorbingly brilliant note and continued to be so till he concluded with akrithiof Ramadasu,Paluke Bangaramayena.The evocative rendering ofVandenisimaham (Hamsadhwani) of Mysore Vasudevachar adorned with scintillatingswaram, absorbing presentation ofEvarikai Avataaramettitivo(Devamanohari) and the expansive expatiation ofBhavanutha(Mohana), both of Tyagaraja, were scholarly efforts and stood out in particular. K.V.S. Prasad and  AIR staffer Vankayana Venkataramana Murthy lent commensurable support on violin and mridangam respectively. Mandapaka Ravi on kanjeera, appeared to be almost a peer to Ramana Murthy.Thethanirendered by them at the end of thekeerthanainMohanaenhanced the over all grandeur .A. RAMALINGA SASTRYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/20/stories/2005052001380200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/20/images/2005052001380201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VViolin virtuoso The title of `Nadhasudhanidhi' was conferred on the Komanduri Krishnamacharyulu.
p14
ss.