(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSoothing and sensitive
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKThe credit for the charming appeal of the veena recital of Revathy Krishna on Saraswathi Puja day at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam Information Centre sprang from the calming effect her music produced.Full of feeling and emotion, delicately sensitive aesthetic expression, fluency and tonal richness in the playing style were the most striking features in every item she presented.In veena, gentleness of meetu is critical and this prevailed in her emphasis on quality. The sukham aspect spoke of her superior quality of perception.In her raga essays of Khamas ("Maathe Malayadwaja") and Kanada ("Alai Paayudhe") there was a singular abundance of rakti sancharas and in every turn of the phrases there was the radiance of the ragas.The lyrical beauty of Khamas and the tranquil shape she gave to the song was of intense significance revealing her melodic motivation. That set the pattern for the items that followed.The sense of delight one felt when she played Kanada and kirtana stemmed from the compulsive tenderness she imparted to them.Two other pieces in the programme drew attention  -   Aarabhi ("Amba Sowramba", a composition of Chinnayya Pillai) and Kiravani ("Varamulosagi"). Their grace lighted up her stirring talent.The unique ease with which she handled the alapanas and swaras marked her clear feel for their subtleties. The sancharas were crisp and elegant, a noteworthy feature of her veena refinement.Yogaraj, the mridangist, while accompanying her in the Carnatic music segment, was vivifying and energetic. As for the light classical devotional items the orchestra provided subdued background support.In the matter of finesse, Revathy Krishna made no difference between the heavy and light classical play.Vivid and imaginativeOn the previous day Prema Rangarajan's concert was on the lines of tradition and purity of Carnatic music. Proportioned attention to alapana and songs was well stressed. The basis of her exposition was observance of decorum. The alapanas of Ritigowla ("Bale Balendu Bhooshani"), Hamsanandi ("Pahi Jagajjanani") and Madhyamavathy ("Venkatesa Ninnu") were vivid and imaginative.The structure, nuances and the kalapramana of the kirtanas were presented without any extravagances of vocalism, but all the time tasteful in concept and expression without percussive activism. The other items were: "Hiranmayeem" (Lalita), "Prasanna Venkateswaram" (Vasanta Bhairavi). This showed her pragmatic perception of a concert's demands.In T.K. Padmanabhan, Nellai Balaji and Guru Prasad Prema had good violin, mridangam and ghatam support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100602400500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100602400502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPrema Rangarajan.
p14
ss.