(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VKeeping the audience spellbound
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVINithyashree Mahadevan has wooed uninitiated listeners to classical music by making her presentation deliciously simple. Her rich and sonorous voice only adds to the charm. She was singing for the `Eppadi Padinaro' series organised by Sri Krishna Sweets, at Abhinava Theertha Mandapam at Ramarkoil, Coimbatore, and the crowd that milled into the temple kept increasing by the minute and those who could not find a place to sit or even stand, sat on the ground in bunches enjoying the pleasant weather and the delectable music.Commencing with "Sri Vaathaapi Ganapathiye" in Sahana, Nithyashree kept the audience spell-bound for three hours with her colourful fare that included not so often heard kritis of famous composers as well as lovely contemporary compositions.She presented "Paramatmudu velige" (Vagadheeswari) by  Tyagaraja, "Sri Satyanaaraayanam" (Subhapantuvarali) by Dikshitar and "Paarvathi Ninnu Ne Neranammithi" (Kalagada) by Syama Sastri. Mangalam Ganapathy's "Malaya Maarutham Veesidum Velaiyil" in Malaya Marutham and Yoga Narasimham's "Sadha Saaranga Nayane" in Ranjani were presented elaborately with alapana and swaraprastharas. Neelakanta Sivan's "Enraikku Siva Krupai Varumo' in Mukhari was dripping withkarunarasa.The vocalist won lingering applause for her fascinating delineation of Kharaharapriya and followed it with "Jaanakipathe Jaya Kaarunya Jaladhe." The Sanskrit kriti by Papanasam Sivan that celebrates the many-faceted greatness of Sri Rama, as a husband,  son, friend and as the merciful God, came alive and spread its glory while she sang it. "Aadu Raatte, Suzhanraadu Raatte' the popular patriotic song of the pre-independence era in ragamalika was sung to the hearty approval of the audience.Lively swaras"Mayil Meedhu Vilaiyaadum Vadivelane' with its lively swaras and "Kannanaippaadu Maname' were enjoyable. The ragamalika viruttam "Pullaai Pirandhaalum' was full of devotion and the song that followed, "Nambikkettavar Evarayya" in Hindholam was thought-provoking.M.A.Krishnaswamy's violin was at once mellifluous and forceful. I. Sivakumar on the mridangam and Kovai G. Suresh on the ghatam gave a spectacular performance.The greatest tonic for an artiste is the appreciation of the rasikas and Nithyashree got it in plenty and showed her gratefulness by providing greater fulfilment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/28/stories/2006072800270300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/28/images/2006072800270301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNithyashree Mahadevan.
p14
ss.