(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMemorable experience
p3
sVnews
p4
VA surprise gift of two complimentary seasons passes at the Music Academy opened an exciting window of opportunity for the family. The festivity began with Ravikiran&#8217;s Chitraveena being the second senior concert of the entire line-up. Hemanth considers this as a very fortuitous start of the season.As a child Hemanth had the opportunity to perform with Ravikiran and his brother (vocalist) Sashikiran during their school events at Kendriya Vidyalaya (CLRI). Ravi&#8217;s phenomenal concert at the Academy on December 16 was immediately followed by Gayatri Venkataraghavan&#8217;s immaculate vocal recital. Every subsequent day of the festive fortnight was a day of eager anticipation.Hemanth is senior manager for an MNC and he had to shuffle between his office and personal engagements to try and catch as many artists and performances as feasible.Hemanth is all praise for the newly installed Bose Speaker Systems that provided immaculate acoustics across the entire auditorium.The reclining seats on the ground floor were remarkably comfortable, he says. Hemanth and his family managed to attend about 15 concerts in total.The performances of Ranjani and Gayatri sisters, the Mandolin brothers, Unni Krishnan, T.M.Krishna, and O.S.Arun were memorable.The compositions in various regional languages (Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and even Marathi) truly revealed music as the uniting factor among all our superficial diversity. The audience consisted of people from other States and abroad. It was heart-warming to even find a Sikh gentleman attending the concerts regularly, observes Hemanth.Hemanth is also impressed by the meticulousness with which car parking was attended to. He found the usherers inside the hall, the staff at the counter and the caterers at the cafeteria pleasant. As a disappointment he cites the closing down of the pan shop. Some visitors, perhaps messed up the premises prompting the staff to take this step, he feels.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/01/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/01/04/stories/2008010451440700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.