(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPoise, elegance and propriety
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKA good voice, sahitya gnana, selection of songs and commitment to refinement, each by itself can confer exquisiteness on a concert.If all the four combine, the voice becomes nothing less than God's gift.  How deftly it is used is, however, is the performer's privilege.In her concert for Nadopasana, Vasundhara Rajagopal had no necessity to cajole her voice to impart excellence. Her performing style was of the quality that regulated both form and substance with an eye on refinement.At the very start, she put the recital on a healthy rhythm with the brisk Atana kirtana, "Sri Mahaganapathim."There were strands of charming sancharas in the simple but joyful alapana of Mayamalavagowla. A sense of calmness prevailed over her softened presentation. The whole suite of the raga, the song "Tulasidalamulache," neraval for the pallavi lines and swaras was delightfully rejuvenating.Happy blendThe glowing picturisation of Kiravani vinyasa stemmed from the happy blending of karvais, madhyamakala passages, spiced with akara flow with an overall feeling of sukham. The alapana was marked by a rich tapestry of rakti and fluency and effortlessness in negotiating the tara sthayi segment.  What gave the exposition distinction was the open-throated caressingly breezy akaras that emphasised the varied shades of Kiravani. The kirtana was "Punniyam-oru-kodi."There was an easy grace that lighted up the song "Narayana" of Purandara Dasa in Suddha-Dhanyasi. As the sahitya was well articulated it echoed the message strong and bold.Two other alapanas formed a place in the concert  -   Saranga ("Emi-Dova-Balk" of Tyagaraja) and Dhanyasi ("Paradevate" by Muthuswamy Dikshitar). Poise, elegance and propriety were the hallmarks of Vasundhara's performance.The violinist Srinivasa Rao's support was competent if not exuberant. His solo play was tradition-bound.Skanda Subramaniam (mridangam) and S.V.Ramanan (kanjira) took care of  the percussive wing.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060202210400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/02/images/2006060202210401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VREJUVENATING: Vasundhara Rajagopal.  Photo: K. N. Muralidharan
p14
ss.