(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCandid conversation
p3
sVnews
p4
VSampradaya's latest Samvada between P.S. Narayanaswamy and Vijay Siva had tips on the art of diplomacy! And why not? Tact matters in all professions, more so in the world of Carnatic music. When PSN is called upon to preside over the arangetram of a mediocre singer, he falls back on the tried and tested words, &#8220;With more practice, you will do well!&#8221; And PSN said he had learnt tact by observing Semmangudi, who would greet his detractors effusively, just to keep them quiet!The genetic factorDoes music have to be in one's genes? Not so, said PSN. Vijay Siva said DKP was the first in her family to take to music. But familial support and feedback are essential. The words parampara and bani are not to be confused. What a musician gets from his guru may be termed parampara, and what he adds to it determines his bani, said Vijay Siva.In music, as in any profession, nothing succeeds like success. The banis of popular musicians are remembered. But those of of excellent singers such as Salem Desikan have been forgotten, because they were not popular concert performers, pointed out PSN.While absorbing the guru's style, one must avoid imitating him. There were people who thought if they sang with a nasal twang they would become famous like Semmangudi, not knowing that the nasality was the result of an operation Semmangudi had to undergo, and that he had, through perseverance, overcome problems with his voice! Vijay Siva was reprimanded by DKJ, when he copied DKJ's gestures, while singing. PSN's practice sessions consisted of singing kritis. This helped him imbibe the main features of ragas. Alapana then became easy. For Vijay Siva, sadhakam involves niraval practice.The differenceCommercialisation of music, according to Vijay Siva was not a new trend. There were musicians with quirky demands - water from the Cauvery had to be brought by train for one, because he wouldn't bathe in anything else! The public must learn to separate the quality of the music and the economic aspect of the profession. To confuse the two is unfair to the musician.In concerts, musicians must not refer to papers. They mustn't let their memories rust. DKP's mnemonic device was a &#8216;graphic representation' of kritis. She would draw circles and lines in the air to remember sangatis!It is important to accept valid criticism gracefully, but one shouldn't be plagued by guilt feelings over mistakes, observed Vijay Siva. To give good music is the duty of a musician, instead of lowering standards just to draw crowds, said PSN.A musician should quit while the going is good, and not wait to be eased out in his/her dotage, cautioned Vijay Siva. A candid Samvada - one of the best from Sampradaya.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/01/stories/2011040150100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/01/images/2011040150100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVeteran speaks:P.S. Narayanaswamy with Vijay Siva (left).
p14
ss.