(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelody of a Marathi musical
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAThe glorious tradition of Marathi musical theatre stretches over 150 years. It boasts of many famous dramatists, music directors and singer-actors. . Musicals like "Shakuntal", "Saubhadra", "Manapman" and "Katyar Kaljat Ghusali" have popularised classical music.One of the most popularsangeet natak(musical plays), "Sanshay Kallol" was presented in a musical format by Vasant Kala Vilas, in association with Dr. Vasant Rao Deshpande Trust, at the India International Centre on the occasion of the 23rd death anniversary of Dr. Vasant Rao Deshpande this past week. This humorous play was written by Govind Ballal Deval (also its music director) and was premiered way back on October 20, 1916. Natsamrat Balgandharva acted as Revati, the beautiful heroine of the play and immortalised the character and the play  with his impressive acting and melodious singing.The recent musical was conceived, written and directed by Pandit Jayram Potdar who also played the organ, the authentic accompaniment to Marathisangeet natak. Nati Prajakta Khot and Sutradhar Shirish Joshi, dressed in typical Marathi attire, narrated the storyline in Hindi for the benefit of non-Marathi speaking audience.Songs were also rendered in  original Marathi  by Ravindra Kulkarni and Sucheta Acachat to give the connoisseurs the real feel and flavour of thesangeet natak. The programme took a flying start with the traditional `nandi', the invocatory song, "Saukhya Sudha... " in raga Yaman, sung  by a chorus. Next came  "Soochak Pada" in raga Pilu, which described howsanshay(suspicion) destroys the most cordial relationship, depicting the theme and  moral of the story.Parallel storiesThe play has two  parallel storylines. One is about the wealthy hero Ashvin who suspects the heroine Revati of infidelity. The second is  of another couple  -   Phalgun Rao and Kritika, who also suspect each other.  After lots of turns and twistsandhumorous situations, the comedy of errors finally concludes  on a joyful note, where  everyone lives happily ever after. Each situation was described by songs set to various ragas like Desh, Durga, Khamaj, Brindavani Sarang, Bhimpalsi, Shuddha Sarang, Bahar, Adaana, Darbari, Bhairavi and talas like teentaal, jhaptaal, drut-ektaal, addha theka, dadara and kaharava. Some of thebandishes(compositions) have become extremely popular over the years like "Mrignayana rasik mohini... " in raga Darbari. It was amazing to see how a sombre raga like Darbari  can be used so well to express a rasa like `Shringar'. Another song sung by Ravindra Kulkarni "Hi Bahu Chapal Varangana" was composed beautifully in  the simple raga  Khamaj. The song "Sanshay Ka Mane Aala", sung effortlessly by Sucheta, was adorned with intricate harkatin the typical style ofnatya geet.Both Ravindra and Sucheta did full justice to all the songs they sang. The excellent organ accompaniment by Jayram Potdar enhanced not only the music, but also the whole ambience, providing authenticity to the whole affair. Sanjay Karandikar gave laudable support on the tabla. The Nati Prajakta and thesutradharShirish Joshi explained the gist of every song in fluent Hindi, which came handy for therasaswaadan(enjoyment) ofrasikas.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080401500200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080401500201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODY "Sanshay Kallol" in progress.
p14
ss.