(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAbhang &#151;  propagating devotion through poetry
p3
sVnews
p4
VSULOCHANA PATTABHIRAMANAbout eight hundred years ago, there were a number of God realised souls in Maharashtra who initiated the Bhakti Sampradaya and Nama Sankirtana Sampradaya.The Bhakti Sampradaya was a mode of worship that was easily adopted and practised by even the unlettered masses and  thus the Nama Sankirtana cult and Varkari Sampradaya came into existence. The songs composed by the Maharashtrian saints are known as Abhangs, that is, A+Bhang meaning those compositions that would never be wiped off the face of the earth.The abhang is a form of devotional poetry sung in praise of Lord Krishna also known as Vittala and Vithoba in Maharashtra. Rendering of abhangs attaches great importance to the lyrics, correct diction, chorus singing and most importantly the bhakti aspect. The rhythm (beat) is also specific with a Tod finale (Tirmanam).The Varkari tradition underlines bhakti and spirituality. The Varkaris can be categorised as Vaishnavite saints from Maharashtra like Dhyaneshwar, Namdev, Tukaram and many others.The Varkaris go on a pilgrimage to Pandharpur twice a year. They walk all the way from their native places with the palkis of the saints.  Individual sacrifice, non-violence, compassion, peaceful co-existence were the values they underlined. The saints of this lineage wrote booklets of verses in praise of the Almighty in simple language known as Haripath. This work united people of all castes and creeds.The first abhangsAbhangs were first sung by Tukaram in his mother tongue, Marathi. He was a 17th century poet who lived in a town named Dehu, located near the modern-day Pune. He  sought to lay emphasis on devotion and love towards God in contrast to  blind adherence to rituals and arcane religious practices. Scholars differ about his year of birth such as 568 A.D., 577, 598, 1608. But there is less controversy about his demise &#151;  1650 A.D.   Tukaram  had two wives and the first, Rakhumabai, died of starvation during a severe famine. Tukaram felt ashamed and guilty that he could not get enough food to save her life. The second wife Jijabai constantly nagged her husband for not being able to hold a job and support his family.  Filled with frustration and doubt, Tukaram was even prepared to commit suicide. It was then that he experienced the Divine presence and his whole life underwent a sea change. The basic tenets of his philosophy were simple such as to serve mankind to walk the path of love.  He said that the greatest privilege for man is to be a bhakta and propagate Naamajapa.Tukaram wrote a particular verse form called the Abhang, and in this creative effort, he was unrivalled, for others acknowledged the superior quality embedded in his hymns. Tukaram added his signature, "Tukamhane" meaning Tuka says. Legend has it that the Lord himself met him on the top of a hillock to take him to His abode.  Even today, devotees gather at the hillock and sing his praises. Sant Dhyaneshwar, also known as Gnyana Deva, was a 13th century poet born in Ahmednagar distrct of Maharashtra  and was the first noteworthy proponent of the Bhagavath Dharma, a form of devotional worship. He composed the Bhavartha deepika to explain the sacred contents of the Bhagavad Gita. His writings were a combination of scholarly intelligence and poetic beauty. He composed nearly a thousand abhangs of which 28 are part of Haripath. The works of Dhyaneshwar and his siblings have influenced the Marathi culture and their poetry is still very popular in Maharashtra. It is believed that Sant Dhyaneshwar's life was dotted with many miracles.Saint Namdev was a prominent bhakti poet born to a tailor named Damashethy and his wife Guna Bai.  His abhangs have been collected in `Naamdevachi Gatha' that includes the long autobiographical poem, `Tirathavah.' As many as 61 of his hymns are included in the Guru Granth Sahib.  Samartha Ramdas  was blessed with the darshan of Krishna who gave him an idol for his daily prayer. The ruler Shivaji was so overwhelmed when he met the great spiritual guru that he gifted his entire kingdom to him and left the palace. Ramdas, however, returned it to him and said that it was only Shivaji who should continue to rule. A great devote of Rama, Ramdas  passed away in 1681 and his best known works are `Epic Dasabodh,' disagreeing and pointing out the faults in society at that period, and `Manache Slok' written in an impressive rhetorical style that address the mind. His poetry could be compared with the `kirthan'.Saint Eknath (1533-1599), Chokkamelaa belonging to a caste considered untouchable in the 14th century, Janabai born in a backward caste family who became a devoted servant advocating equality among all, regardless of caste, Nivruttinath and Gora Kumbhar, are some of the other luminaries who have adorned the bhakti firmament of Maharashtra.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/15/stories/2006121502520800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/15/images/2006121502520801.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTukaram Ganapathi.
p14
ss.