(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSound aural team
p3
sVnews
p4
VMudhra Music has recorded a veena duet audio CD by the husband and wife team, Jairaj and Jayashree, with Mannargudi Easwaran and E. M. Subramaniam on the mridangam and ghatam respectively. The programme comprising Dikshitar kritis on Lord Subrahmanya is flagged off with a dignified, composed version of `Parvati Kumaram' in Nattakurinji with well-assembled kalpanaswaras in the pallavi topped by a functional korvai. The rakti of Suruti is effectively conveyed in the raga alapana with all its graceful nuances and winning charm brought to the forefront with melodic sancharas. `Balasubrahmanyam' that describes the Lord as the Kalpataru for all devotees, is invested with considerable musical content. The sweet strains of Brindavana Saranga with gentle plucking of the strings and a light classical touch, establish a pleasing aural connection.Professional touchFollowing a sound exposition of Pantuvarali (Kasiramakriya according to the Dikshitar nomenclature), `Senapate' is played flawlessly. The sarvalagu swara passages, the Panchama Kuraippu and the finishing solfa sequence are indicative of worthy professional skills.The majestic grandeur of Kambhoji is a many-splendoured thing that defies description. The melody, as old as the mountains, has been gainfully employed by numerous illustrious composers, but the Kambhoji embedded in Dikshitar's `Sri Subrahmanyaya Namaste' has a singular degree of excellence. The methodical structure of the raga delineation, the spruce rendition of the song, and the spontaneous swara festoons in two kalapramanams are rich in the classical idiom. `Gajamba Nayaka,' a Samashti charanam kriti in winsome Chenchurutti, has  a pleasant auditory effect. The reputed percussionists' tani avartanam is governed by laya accuracy, perfection, and an infectious enthusiasm.SandhyavandanamGita Cassettes has brought out Sandhyavandanam in DVD and VCD. The ritual, observed three times in a day, has been demonstrated by T. S. Ranganathan, to the accompaniment of mantras. Produced and marketed by Giri Trading Agency under the supervision of Sankara Sastrigal, the DVD (Rs.200) and the VCD (Rs.150) are available at all leading cassette shops.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/26/stories/2005082602890500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/26/images/2005082602890501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.