(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn experience to be treasured
p3
sVnews
p4
VM. RAMESHVeteran Carnatic musician Madurai G.S.Mani says he likes to "withdraw from the scene" but it doesn't seem to work that way. He accepts concerts selectively, but many young and budding music directors of the Tamil filmdom, consult him on a regular basis.  He presents lec-dems, has teaching assignments like the one he did in Kaula Lumpur for three-weeks, last year.   Sometimes he goes to the celluloid world for a cameo role, like the one he did as a psychiatrist in Kamal Hassan's "Aalavandan."The septuagenarian took some time off his schedule to talk about his half-a-century long career in various branches of music, including films.What are your recollections of your days with M.S.Viswanathan?It gives me immense pleasure to think about those days. Apart from the happiness  of working with a great music director and being a part of some immortal hit songs, the  years I worked with him (from 1957) put me in touch with many great personalities of the Tamil film world. Although I was personally acquainted with people like MGR, Sivaji and Karunandihi, I would name two film personalities as my very good friends &#151;  Chandra Babu and Kannadasan. Of course, P.B.Srinivos is a very close  friend  and attends many of my concerts.How did you happen to stray into the film world?A chance meeting with MSV at B.S.Ranga's office paved the way. MSV had listened to my concert on radio and was surprised to find me there.  He asked if I would join his troupe. And there I was.How was it working with MSV?It was great. MSV was a workaholic. He would work round the clock.  And he is a great composer too. When we were scoring the music  for "Nilave Ennidam Nerungadae" (`Ramu,')  MSV produced, in just half-hour's time, at least ten different tunes, all excellent.  Finally, it was PBS who chose the Bhagyasri tune.    Kannadasan was equally prolific. He would compose music in a jiffy.Have you seen Kannadasan at work?Of course. He wrote the songs for `Ambigapathy' in ten minutes flat. This was after Pattukottai Kalyanasundaram politely declined to take it up because he thought Kannadasan was the right person. A.L.Srinivasan, producer, signed a blank cheque and handed it over to Kannadasan. Remember they were brothers but not on talking terms. They were professional, to the core.How was it composing music for legends like T.M.Soundararajan and P.B.Srinivos?TMS was a perfectionist, wouldn't stop until he was satisfied.  I have not known a person who could touch up a song like PBS could. For example, the swirls after each line of the famous ``Kaalangalil aval... " It was his idea. He knew how to embellish.Did you not aspire to become a playback singer or a music director yourself?I did, but it did not happen mainly because the star actors always had a say in the choice of the composer or singer for the film and they always preferred established directors and singers. But I have composed over 400 songs and 30 varnams.Who was your guru in Carnatic music?I learnt from my mother, and then from Jalatarangam Babu Iyengar, who was the grandson of Poochi Iyengar, nagaswaram vidwan Aiayyampettai Venu and finally Mazhava Raya Nendal Subbarama Iyer, who taught me many nuances.I picked up music from many sources, including Harikatha exponents such as Annasamy Bhagavathar. I lived in Delhi for three years and listened to many Qawwali concerts.In your concerts you display a penchant for rare ragas.There is so much to explore, so many ragas to be presented. Why ignore them? I tell aspiring musicians,  "Why do you borrow phrases from GNB or Ariyakkudi? After all, they did not imitate each other."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/15/stories/2006121502120600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/15/images/2006121502120601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVERSATILE: G.S.Mani.
p14
ss.