(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPoignancy was lacking
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.SWAMINATHANMusic maestro Madurai T. N. Seshagopalan has many aces up his sleeve. Even as we are marvelling at his vocal dexterity, he plays on the veena to delight his ardent fans. Then he effortlessly switches over to the keyboard. Just as you are admiring his skill to adapt to a western instrument, he bowls you over with a full-fledged Harikatha, the art of story telling with music as the main vehicle.It was the last mentioned dimension of TNS's artistic prowess that was under spotlight at Hamsadhwani where he presented Kambaramayanam for five days. Seshagopalan sports a new look as raconteur.  Dressed in a glittering zari bordered dhoti, draped in the traditionalpanchakachchamstyle complete withangavastram, a garland around his neck andchiplakattaiin hand, TNS dons the role of a Harikatha bhagavathar with élan.Music, an essential part of Harikatha, dominates.  The wealth of knowledge TNS carries is unbeatable. But mixing them in the right proportion is an art by itself. The five-day Kambaramayanam deliberation for Hamsadhwani showcased TNS's strengths, er... certain weaknesses too.The first day saw an elaborate prelude of opening songs including the `Dimikita dimikita,' Shyamala Dandagam and TNS's favourite Muthaiah Bhagavatar kriti, ``Amba vani nannu" in Keeravani. The beauty and magnificence of Ayodhya was elucidated well but the many digressions diluted the effect.  ``Vanmai illai oar" and ``Tandalai mayilgal aada" received lengthy treatments, Valluvar and Andal sharing the space. References copiously drawn  Thirukkural, Azhwar Pasuram, Nachiyar Thirumozhi, etc., showcased Seshagopalan's deep knowledge of Tamil literature.Lyrical beautyKambaramayanam is itssandam(rhythmic rhyme). The lyrical beauty of the epic is indeed exceptional. TNS's quotes poured forth &#151;  to illustrate compassion,   to depict a character through words with layers of meaning or for sheer dramatic effect. TNS delved deep  into the work of Kamban to share what he enjoyed.  Now, the story of Ramayanam is well known.  Those who come to listen  definitely expect something more from the scholar than a linear recitation of the famous legend. Did Seshagopalan do justice to their expectations? True, titbits, cross-references and interesting nuggets are necessary to make a discourse fascinating. When they become surplus, however, the focus is lost. In other words, the essence of the epic is more important than the episodes. Being a musician of excellence, TNS could fit the verses into appropriate classical ragas such as Kalyani, Todi, Kalyanavasantham, Amritavarshini and so on. Seshagopalan's love for music took the upper hand and one enjoyed him  singing ``Kothandarama" of Dikshitar in rare Kokilapriya and ``Yaro endru ennamale" in Sankarabharanam and his fine explorations of  Khamas, Hamsanandhi and Bageshree. It was drama that was lacking. If Seshagopalan had exhibited the same kind of skill as mono-actor, the show would have gained poignancy, which was missing.   His colloquial language with the characteristic lingo, tangential anecdotes, excess puns and alliterations and lack of time consciousness were the grey areas  in the narrative. Jokes on contemporary affairs do add pep, but some of them were so clichéd that they failed to raise a chuckle.Seshagopalan has taken up the splendid cause of nurturing a traditional art form which is a unique blend of classical music and storytelling. Sure he is endowed with both capacities. Attention to the content, eschewing insipid digressions and an awareness of the time factor will make his style captivating.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041402501000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041402501001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VYET ANOTHER DIMENSION: T. N. Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.