(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSaying it so well...
p3
sVnews
p4
VNANDINI NAIRDesmond. Abhishek. Chris. Adil. Together they are called Bandish. Four artistes who have come together to produce one sound. The brainchild of Chris Powell, they are out with their debut album `Kaise Kahoon'.In a stylish basement studio in South Delhi, the band members strumming their instruments, sitting on amplifiers talked about who they are.Chris, a former member of Euphoria, plays drum and percussions. Adil Manuel used to play guitar for Silk Route. Abhishek Nailwal, the lead vocalist of the band, is a familiar voice in the advertising world. Veteran guitarist Desmond Powell is a founder-member of Rock groups like Nirvana and True Colours. Arpan Guha who recently joined Bandish has played with bands like Junoon.Chris emphatically says, "Bandish as a band, is a team, not individuals. As the name suggests it is about unity, about doing music we all love."`Kaise Kahoon' is their introduction to the world as a band. Chris, brushing stray strands from his eyes, explains their genesis.The band came together informally a year ago and started recording tunes. Once they felt they had a winning melody, they decided to turn the melody into song. Soon they had an entire album.They are unwilling to classify their album. Adil says, "It's fusion", Arpan on base guitar adds with suppressed laughter, "no confusion."Unity in diversity"We wanted the album to reflect our versatility," says Chris. "The unique aspect of the album is that it has something for everyone from pure rockers to hip-hoppers." Because of the varied backgrounds of the members, the album has benefited from different influences and styles."Goonj", now showing on music channels, reflects their powerful guitar and drum sound. "Tum hi Tum" is a hip-hop track whereas "Dil Ki Deeware" is a gentle melodic song. The aim as Adil explains, "is to break out of influences and create our own sound."Chris says, "It is a combination of electric and Indian instruments". "It's contemporary popular music that comes from the heart." The album uses a variety of ethnic Indian instruments like sarangi, sitar, flute, tabla, dholak, mridangam. The album also features celebrity singers like Harshdeep of "Rang De Basanti" fame. Swahnand Kirkeree of "Parineeta" has written the title track.Talking about other musical influences, Adil asserts, "Ultimately it is you who has to come out. One needs one's own identity." Desmond, the old hand of the band, says how children come up to him and say, "This album gave us hope." Desmond wants Bandish to "encourage other Indian bands to come out and do something like this."The band unanimously agrees that the making of the `Goonj' video was a "brilliant experience". The video was shot both at Film City and in Samm, at the Indo-Pak border. Abhishek confidently says, "It's been a while since anyone saw a video like this." They confess that the blazing sun and sand were all "worth it" once they realised how the "camera wanted to present it and what the director wanted."Meanwhile, "Delhi," Chris says, "is the most happening place for live shows. Venues likes colleges, pubs and hotels provide ample opportunity." The band wants to reach a mass audience. Chris says, "With English music we wouldn't have stood a chance, we don't want to target a niche audience."The band launched their album at a packed and highly charged Turquoise Cottage. Their friends Amaan Ali Khan and Ayaan Ali Khan released it.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/30/stories/2006063001540400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/30/images/2006063001540401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBAND IT Members of Bandish in action.
p14
ss.