(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFull-steam articulation
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKThere was a fine feeling of relaxation in the kutcheri of Vasundhara Rajagopal.  With a smooth ascent and descent, she gave in her performance full-steam articulation to raga vinyasas and rendering of kirtanas.Controlled manodharma, clarity of expression and an underlying mellowness marked her sound musical equipment.In raga delineation she invoked specific sancharas to reveal the swaroopa. This aspect deserved particular notice in Purvikalyani and Sankarabharanam. A sense of proportion gave distinct contours to the former. With regard to the latter she gave importance to the artistic process and not mere external dressing up by vocal manipulation.Apart from the elegant style of presentation, the felicitous flow of her voice came to the fore. The other raga she dealt with was Mukhari (`Entanine').The simple, straightforward presentation of kirtanas &#151;  `Padmavathy Ramanam' (Purvikalyani), `Sri Vatapi Ganapathiyi' (Sahana), `Rame Bharatapalitha' (a composition in raga Jyoti, the nomenclature given to Jyotiswaroopini in the Dikshitar School) &#151;  stuck to the demands of classicism.Her rendering of the Sankarabharanam song, `Evidamula' (a Tyagaraja composition not commonly heard) encompassed all the lyrical aspects of the sahitya.Great restraintPakkala Ramadas (violinist) provided modest contribution with tame response to Vasundhara's excessively polite style. Umayalpuram Mali (mridangam) played with great restraint by not introducing assertive patterns.All the pretty delights of vilamba movements of the early part of ragas spoke of the professional eminence of Sashank in his flute recital. But this aspect could be seen mainly in the alapana of Manoranjini (`Adukaaraadani') and Kharaharapriya (`Rama Neeyada') because they were the only two items that covered almost the whole concert time of two hours.There was an apology of ragam, tanam and pallavi in Behag completed in less than twenty minutes.Being Tyagaraja kirtanas they could take on such leisurely interpretation. Both the raga alapanas and the rendering of kirtanas had soft melodic overtones. The performance focussed on the strong foundation of natural talent.B.U.Guru Prasad, in his violin support, well reflected the quality of music presented by Sashank. The ease and liveliness of his solo versions were impressive. Patri Satish Kumar (mridangam) and Amrit (kanjira) put lyrical flavour into their percussive play.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202250500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.