(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelody with strings
p3
sVnews
p4
VNoted music sabha Sangeetha Ksheerasagaram introducedeminent veena player, V.L.Narayana to the city&#8217;s music lovers for the first time by holding his concert at Thayagaraya Ganasabha. He is the son of Veena virtuoso, the late V.L.Janakiram, National artiste of AIR. No wonder that Janakiram shaped his son Narayana too into a wonderful soloist. Though Narayana did mechanical engineering, he switched his profession and is presently working as an A-grade staff artiste of Chennai AIR.He is known for conductingVadya Vridasfor AIR and is specialised in playing complicatedpallavis.This programme was well attended including a sizable number of citymusicians. Narayana was accompanied on this occasion by Kapa Srinivasa Rao on Mridangam and T.P.Balasubramanyam on ghatam.His opening Natakuranjivarnamin two speeds was by itself appealing purely for the display of his playing technique using the frets and pulling the strings in-between covering two or three notes at a time. He chose Muthuswamy Deekshitar&#8217;sMahaganapathim&#8217;in Nata for an invocation. Theswarakalpanain thekritipart was enjoyable. Another piece of ThyagarajaMaravairi Ramaniin Nasika Bhushani, in Roopakam accelerated concert appeal.This was also opened with an extensiveragaalapanaand theswaramin thekritipart was exemplary.Mariverein Ananda Bhairavi in Misrachaputalamof Shyama Sastry andRaghuvamsa Sudhain Kadanakutihalam of Patnam were delightfully presented. Narayana played Thyagaraja&#8217;s popular numberBrovabharamain Bahudhari with an essay of theragaandneravuandswarakalpanalater. Latangi was his main essay for Patnam&#8217;sMarivere Dikkevvaruin Khandachaputalam.He played theragawith ease.  Thetani avartanamby the percussionist duo Srinivasa Rao and Balasubramanyam was in sync. Later Narayana was felicitated by Duddu Sitaramayya, principal Secunderabad Government college of Music and Dance.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/05/stories/2008120550200300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.