(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRaga rainbow
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was an amazing opportunity to enjoy the rich variety of Hindustani classical music presented by the stalwarts of different gharanas at the recent Gharana Festival organised by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA). Listening to the different styles of rendition one after another by vocalists of different schools of music, interpreting the same set of notes in different ways, exposed discerning music lovers to the exclusive characteristic features and beauty of each gharana.The four-day festival opened with Pandit L.K. Pandit representing the Gwaliar gharana, which is supposed to be the &#8220;Gangotri&#8221; or fountainhead of all gharanas. Explaining the ashtaanga gaayaki comprising eight genres of singing prevalent in this gharana, he opened his concert with raga Hamir, one of the favourite ragas of the Gwalior school. Girija Devi represented the Benaras gharana on the inaugural evening. Telling about the chaumukhi or fourfold style of this gharana, she opened with a couple of khayals in raga Yaman Kalyan before rendering the Benarasi Thumri Dadra she is adored for.The Sunday morning session had Suhasini Koratkar from the Bhendi Bazar gharana and Ustad Iqbal Ahmad Khan from the Dilli gharana. Suhasini spoke of the archival recording project of the IGNCA for which she had been recording rare compositions of this gharana. The Bhendi Bazaar gharana is known for its medium tempo compositions, but the greats like Anjani Bai Malpekar, she said, have also sung slow tempo khayals. She then rendered the vilambit Ek tala khayal in raga Ahir Bhairav. Her leisurely style replete with meend and gamak and the playful rhythmic variations were aesthetically appealing. She also sang a couple of compositions by Aman Ali Khan in raga Jaunpuri.Iqbal Ahmad Khan, the present khalifa or elder statesman of the Dilli gharana, opened his concert with raga Miyan Ki Todi. He said, &#8220;I will offer you some glimpses of the special features of my ancestors from this gharana.&#8221; He then showcased the gamak and aakar taans, reverse sargam, laya ki kaat, etc., elaborating the raga.Sunday evening brought Shanno Khurana from the Rampur-Saheswan gharana and Ustad Mashkoor Ali Khan from the Kirana gharana. Ghulam Mustafa Khan also represented Rampur-Saheswan a day earlier, while Shubhra Guha's memorable rendering of raga Gauri represented the Agra gharana, known for its verve and vigour.Record crowdThere was a record crowd on the concluding evening when Shruti Sadolikar of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana opened her recital with raga Jait-Shri, a unique combination of ragas Jait and Shri. This gharana is famous for this jod or combination raga. The sensitive portrayal of the raga revealed her perfect training and special emphasis on classicism. Bihagada offered a melodious contrast as her next choice. She also sang Bihari, a very special raga of her gharana, before concluding with her own composition, a Surdas bhajan in raga Mishra Pilu.The festival concluded with the impressive recital of Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty representing the Patiala gharana synonymous with the legendary Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/03/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/03/26/stories/2010032650710200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.