(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGentle music from caressing fingers
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKWith great dexterity and technical competence, veena artiste Jayalakshmi Sekhar provided a pleasing programme with smooth progress of fingering over the frets for Sri Krishna Gana Sabha.Ragas and songs were presented with liveliness on the strength of harmony between meettu and movement of the interpretative process, vocally-oriented for the most part. In rendering the kirtanas "Siddhi-Vinayakam" (Shanmukhapriya) "Nee-chittamu" (Dhanyasi) "Sri-Raghuvaraaprameya" (Khambodi), Jayalakshmi's involvement to stick to tradition could not be missed.The alapanas of Dhanyasi and Khambodi were well draped with respectability. A sense of proportion marked the sanchara images directed to the essential swaroopa of the ragas. Their picturisation brought out her playing ability. But proper spacing between the sancharas would have added value to her art. Though intensely vigorous, her meettu and fingering  were both controlled and gentle.Tonal restraint on the mridangam reflects a percussive accompanist's understanding of a veena concert. J. Balaji's method was perfectly designed to this end. The kanjira artiste Trivandrum Rajagopal's subtle technique of sound regulation was commendable.That Sowmya stands for the present day music pattern of soft voice and softer interpretation was more than amply revealed in her kutcheri. Her main prop in her performance was voice manipulation skill, with musical depth getting low priority. Her alapanas of Sahana (Rama Ikanannu) and Saveri (Durusuga) were characterised by floating sanchara designs in harmony with sampradaya. But she failed to grasp the emotional contours.Tenderness of vocal expression formed the base of Sowmya's musical equipment and rage vision stimulating her manodharma was mainly to be seen at the surface level. Her management of kutcheri technique was a stylistic achievement largely by process-oriented routine.As for the rendition of kirtanas "Janaki-Ramanaa" (Suddha Seemantini) "Rama-Ikannannu" (Sahana) and "Angaarakam" (Surati), they were prosaic  instead of being an aesthetic interpretative experience.A padam of Ghanam Krishna Iyer, "Paarengum-Paartaalum" in Kalyani, even at the early part, could hardly contribute to the liveliness of the concert. On the whole the performance was too tame to provide any listening comfort to the rasikas.The level of the accompanists' support (violin by Embar Kannan and mridangam by B. Ganapathiram) depended on how well the vocalist inspired them. Their role was subdued and lacked vitality.Aesthetic and smoothGiven prime slot, Nisha Rajagopal acquitted herself creditably with smooth flowing akara, her alapanas and rendition of songs were persuasively amiable. Aesthetic touches, vocal control in tara sthayi and smoothly negotiated sancharas made listening pleasantt. There was also a sense of calmness behind her softened progress of the alapanas of Saveri (Velaiya Dayavillaya, Koteeswara Iyer) Kedaragowla (Venugana) and Todi (Kaddanu Vaariki).A vocalist needs good accompanists to make a success of the performance.Nisha had Usha Rajagopal on the violin and Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar on the mridangam. Their support was energetic without being inhibitive.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/08/stories/2006090803130400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/08/images/2006090803130402.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSowmya.
p14
ss.