(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMandolin's magic spell
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIWhile Mandolin U. Srinivas sat on the stage at Jaivabai Higher Secondary School, Tirupur, with the instrument to which he has given a new identity,  the expectations ran high. His was the concluding concert of Tirupur Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha's `Isai Amudham-2007.'Srinivas began to cast his magic spell with `Innam En Manam Ariyaadhavar Pola,' the varnam in Charukesi by Lalgudi Jayaraman. All the kritis he played were well known and popular but he made them appear unique. The lion's share went to Tyagaraja.Filled with gamakasThe staccato instrument  delighted the audience with pure Carnatic music filled with gamakas, its speciality. `Moolaadhara Moorthi' (Hamsadhwani-Papanasam Sivan), `Brochevarevarura' (Khamas-Mysore Vasudevachar) and `Raghuvamsa Sudhambudhi' (Kadanakuthoohalam-Patnam Subramania Iyer) were presented with excellent imagination. He concluded his programme with a lively tillana. M.R.Gopinath was very supportive on the violin and excelled in his crisp raga delineations. B. Harikumar on the mridangam and E.M.Subramaniam on the ghatam contributed to the wonderful appeal of Srinivas and excelled during the thani.Tirupur rasikas like `thani' provided it is lively and comprehensible. The `thani' provided by Umayalpuram Sivaraman (mridangam) and E.M.Subramaniam (ghatam) the previous day during O.S.Thiagarajan's wholesome, traditional concert was  enjoyable.Young violinist Mysore Shrikant stole the show with his mellifluous strokes and was well rewarded with the applause from the audience as well as the admiring and pleased glances of the main artist. Abishek Raghuram's performance showed that he has decided to add melody and bhava to his masterly music, which hence was emotionally appealing.    Little Ishwarya impressed with her confidence while Sathya Prakash earned appreciation with his melodious voice and smooth presentation. C.V.Kannan exhibited good skill in raga delineation and swaraprastaras. His melodious voice could carry emotions  and  clarity of diction made listening a pleasure. He will do well to add more energy to his presentation. (All the three are disciples of Chandra Sekhara Bhagavathar, Coimbatore). Many were moved by the vocal recital of Ashtapathi Shiva, a special child, on the last day. President V. Veera Raghavan and secretary T.R. Ramanathan with the able support of a dedicated team have made a musical revolution possible in a town known only for its hosiery industry.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/02/stories/2007020200020300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/02/02/images/2007020200020301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMandolin U. Srinivas.
p14
ss.