(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWoman with a mission
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe nation recently celebrated the passage of the Women's Reservation Bill in the Rajya Sabha. Meanwhile, in one corner of the world, this woman of substance has done the Carnatic music world proud. Sudha Raghunathan, one of the brightest stars of Carnatic music, belongs to the illustrious GNB school.After being groomed by her mother, Choodamani, and nurtured by B.V. Lakshmanan, the real turning point of Sudha's musical career came when she came under the tutelage of the musical genius, the late M.L. Vasanthakumari (MLV). She had the golden opportunity to provide vocal support to her guru for about a decade.Sudha Raghunathan is also Founder and Managing Trustee of Samudhaaya Foundation, an organisation she started around 10 years ago to serve society at large. The Foundation provides financial assistance for exigencies, national calamities, paediatric medicare for the underprivileged, infrastructural assistance, etc. On its 10th anniversary, the Foundation has started providing a helping hand to children with hearing and visual impairment, palliative care and sexually abused children.The popular vocalist was in town for a music concert recently. Despite her busy schedule in the Capital before and after her concert for the Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha, she took time out for a chat. Excerpts:On her motivation for social welfare causesWhy and how do I come on the stage to perform? It is the audience, which is part of the society, recognises you and makes you a performer. I think you also owe something to society. Each artiste can have a different form of giving back. I have taken up social welfare causes of the society, apart from spreading the joy of music.On improvisational aspects of the G.N. Balasubramanian schoolThe hallmark of the GNB parampara is manodharma (improvisation) and it is the soul of Carnatic music. I am very comfortably couched in this aspect. Generally in life, I love creativity, I love something which is adventurous and keep trying new things. That is one reason why I was fond of MLV amma's music. Before meeting MLV, I had not heard GNB's music. Since then, I listened to lots of his recordings.On teaching methods of her guruMy journey of learning music from MLV amma started around 30 years ago. She never sat and taught in a formal atmosphere. We had to learn from kutcheries (concerts). We had to record it in our mind. It was very challenging and different. Since I started very early with her, my mind was like blotting paper and I could absorb whatever was taught. My guru would say, &#8220;Never waste a sangati or a swara &#8212; at least try not to.&#8221;Learning music using modern technologyI am still old-fashioned. There is nothing like sitting with a guru and learning. Accuracy of learning comes when you sit with a guru. For someone who has already crossed a certain stage of learning and settled abroad, online learning may be useful, because the interest needs to be taken forward. As long as it does not affect the structure of teaching and dilute the art form, use of modern technology is okay.Advice to young aspirantsYoungsters are in a little bit of haste to get on to the performing platform. It is good to perform. But they should realise that once they start performing they also stop learning. Learn as much as possible and wait for the guru's approval to perform. It is good to have a website, as long as it is not over-projected or done artificially. But what matters finally are the quality, dedication and consistency of performance.Delhi rasikasDelhi rasikas are very serious, very restrained and very composed. They are knowledgeable, too.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/09/stories/2010040950180200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/09/images/2010040950180201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSong of the soul Sudha Raghunathan at the Thyagaraja music festival in New Delhi
p14
ss.