(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn a musical sojourn
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a musical sojourn in the literal sense when a group of young and up and coming classical musicians from the state went on a tour of Tamil Nadu, the home of Carnatic music. The tour was sponsored by the Andhra Music Academy, launched six years ago on the lines of Madras Music Academy.The visiting group comprised vocalists R.V. Panduranga Sarma, K. Shyamkumar, K.V. Krishna, N. Ch Parthasarathi, Tejaswi, Bharadwaj, Master Kalyana Vasanth, and mridangam artistes Srinivasa Gopalan, Burra Sriram and Vidya Sagar.Aptly named `Sangeetha Yartra', the trip covered all important cities and towns in Tamil Nadu, which are associated with Carnatic music.Visiting temples was also a part of the programme as manykirtanasby the musical trinity  -   Thyagaraja, Shyama Sastry and Deekshitar  -   were dedicated to the presiding deities of these temples. The project also enabled the artistes to meet great scholars, known and unknown, at some of these places.The man who conceptualised the entire project is Sadguru K. Sivanandamurthy, the spirit behind the Andhra Music Academy. The group was led by Srinivasa Gopalan, executive member of the Andhra Music Aacademy, who also runs Nada Bharati, a musicsabhafor young artistes in Hyderabad.The cultural centres visited by the group were Chennai, Chidambaram, Tiruvarur, Tiruvayyar, Kumbhakonam, Tanjavur, Trichy, Srirangam, Madurai, Srivilliputtur, Karur, Nammakal, Tirvanmnamalai and Kanchipuram.At every place, they got opportunities to sing under the banner of Andhra Music Academy, thus popularising its cause. The young musicians revealed their talent before a good gathering, with concerts lasting over two hours at important places. Srinivasa says they were received cordially at every stopover. The first opportunity for singing came before Padma Bhushan and Sangeetha Kalanidhi D.K. Pattamal, from whom some of the young musicians are still learning.They also met local musical scholars (sangeetha vidwansand felicitated them on behalf of Andhra Music Academy, after singing before them.  They visited Thyagaraja's daughter's place at Tanjavur, where the famousRamapanchayatanamvigrahasof Thyagaraja are preserved.At Chennai they visited the Parthasarathi temple in Triplicane, also visiting Dr. M. Balamuralikrishna's house where they took his blessings. Srinivasa said the musicians are now looking forward for more such Sangeetha Yatras by other groups from either side, which would be a step towards good understanding of music and the artistes behind it.GUDIPOODI SRIHARIBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/06/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/06/24/stories/2005062401790300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/06/24/images/2005062401790301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VALL FOR MUSIC The troupe with D.K. Pattamal
p14
ss.