(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe Melakartha raga _ DD's take
p3
sVnews
p4
VDoordarshan has been airing a feature on the 72 Melakartha raga system. This programme is now well into the Prathi Madhyama melodies, after having duly completed the 36 Suddha Madhyama ragas. Programme Executive Geetha Rajan says that the idea to make a special programme on this scheme of ragas was on her mind. &#8220;DD has its well established tradition of conceiving and making quality programmes and this educative series, it was thought, could serve as a treasure for the future generation, and would become invaluable archival material,&#8221; she saysDD wanted to go beyond Isai arangam, which had only regular concerts. When the idea about the 72 ragas was floated initially, and discussed with Vedavalli and other stalwarts, it won appreciation all around and the seeds were sown in March 2009. In fact, the introductory event was done on March 17 this year, when the fundamental structures, the concept of the Melakartha ragas, the chakras - the basics - was telecast in the form of a discussion among the participants. The vocalists who have appeared in this series of presentations are Vedavalli, Seetha Rajan, Seetha Narayanan, Suguna Varadachari, Vijay Siva and Neyveli Santhanagopalan.All artistes would generally be busy during the music season and the task was to complete the shooting well ahead of the Chennai Isai Vizha, 2009. The entire shoot has now been done successfully. The 72 Melakartha formulation exists in the form of 12 chakras and each chakra has 6 ragas. Care was taken to rope in each of the six vidwans into each chakra. No special script was prepared, but the participants adhered to a uniformity in their presentation.There are not many compositions in all these ragas and the vidwans have worked a great deal to select special compositions to make the programme a rewarding experience even to the lay person.Each episode features a vocalist, who is accompanied by the veena (or the violin) and the mridangam. The base expectedly is Maha Vaidhyanadha Sivan's Mela Ragamalika, which epitomises each of these ragas in a couple of lines. This sahityam is followed by a chittaiswaram. The swaras contained in the last two beats of this chittai swaram have been composed in the next raga of the cycle. A &#8216;handing-over' marked by style and ingenuity.Unique methodThe artistes begin by mentioning the chakra and its meaning. The number assigned to the raga is deduced by a unique nomenclature method known as the &#8216;Ka-ta-pa-yaadi' system of computational procedure, which uses the consonants of the first two syllables of the raga. Exceptions to this rule, wherever it exists, are also explained. The particular lines of this composition where the raga is captured, is read out and then sung with clarity of diction. The Arohanam and Avarohanam is demonstrated by singing it in a plain manner and then with the gamakas. The veena vidwan follows closely.The resemblance of the chosen raga to other ragas and the distinction points are highlighted mentioning the distinguishing swaras. This raga's essential fitness for neraval and swara-singing is also broadly outlined. An example could be the song &#8216;Paramathmudu' in the raga Vagadheeswari, which offers enormous scope for neraval at &#8216;Hariyada Harudata.'Vagadheeswari has to be delicately handled for it could lead the less initiated singer to other ragas such as Naattai or Harikhambhodi. The moral is that the asaivus have to be within the aesthetics of the raga and have to be handled with exceptional care.The philosophical and mystical significance of the lyrics of Sivan's composition is also brought out. The raga's history is traced and mention is also made of special episodes that are associated with other compositions in this raga. Koteeswara Iyer's songs in the 72 Melakartha ragas become the obvious reference point and all artistes invariably render his composition in the respective raga.Doordarshan has in the past come out with DVDs of programmes by S Balachander, MS, .MLV, Namagiripettai Krishnan, and Sheikh Chinna Moulana.Podhigai plans to bring out this whole set of 72 Melakartha ragas in the form of DVDs and further effort towards this end will be taken once the telecast comes to its final episode. Moves are afoot also to make an equally elaborate series on the 108 Thala structure, and laya vidwans when approached by Podhigai have expressed their willingness to offer their expertise.The &#8216;72 Ragas' programme has occupied the second position among the Top Ten in the periodical report prepared by DD's Audience Research Wing. There are avid viewers of this programme who have formed it a habit, notwithstanding the impact of the mega serials and similar programmes on other channels.Watch this programme on Podhigai Channel of Doordarshan. Telecast time: Fridays between 5.30 and 6.00 p.m. with a repeat telecast on Mondays, between 9 and 9.30 a.m.(sivakumar2004@gmail.com)
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/01/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/01/01/stories/2010010150850600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/01/01/images/2010010150850603.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVijay Siva
p14
ss.