(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive, as always
p3
sVnews
p4
V&#8220;Despite her modern, young, attractive looks she is an old timer,&#8221; said Pandit Vijay Kichlu while introducing Shruti Sadolikar Katkar, one of the best exponents of Jaipur Atrauli gharana now, during an unusually rewarding morning session organised by Sangeet Ashram at Kolkata's G.D. Birla Sabhagar recently. Unusual because the erudite vocalist presented a bunch of lesser known ragas: a different variety of Bahaduri Todi, a rare version of Vibhas followed by Khat blending six ragas; and rewarding because the canvas of all the three ragas sparkled in the light of her crystal clear concept, strengthened by equally eloquent bandishes aesthetically coloured by inspired improvisations that never wavered from the given order of ascend, descend, twists and turns. Excerpt from an interview with the ace vocalist who is also the vice-chancellor of Bhatkhande Music College, Lucknow:What is the secret of such uncluttered musicality?Frankly, Ustad Alladiya Khan, the founder of our gharana, had developed a wonderful method of handling the complex gait of ragas which came to me naturally as my father Vaamanrao Sadolikar was a disciple of the legendary ustad. Music flowed freely in our household. Also, it was my mother who not only encouraged me to learn music and musicology from my father but also forced me to study hard for recognised degrees in music and literature. I did my Masters in Marathi and English and Sangeet Visharad from Gandharva Mahavidyalaya.Do degrees help in performance?Yes and no. Yes because they give power of education, confidence, clarity of thinking plus economic independence; and no because musicianship is an ongoing process which demands diligence. There was a time when the canvas of my Khayal was small. Ustad Gulab Bhai Jasdanwala, disciple of Ustad Alladiya Khan and his son Manji Khan, gave me extensive taleem for 12 years. Ustad Azim Khan guides me till date. Gradually, I learnt to take risks while experimenting with melodic phrases, rhythmic patterns and ornamentation of raga. All these keep widening the horizon of my music.How would you justify the raga-roopa?Even abstract art follows a pattern. One should be sure whether he wants to draw a circle or a square. Similarly, ragas need to be justified by their compositions. Raga elaboration must follow the path exposed by the bandish. When unsure, one must have the courage to admit it with &#233;lan by announcing that this is a prakar (variety) of the raga; or after singing Yaman in slow tempo the fast tempo will be in Yaman Kalyan.This frankness, springing from the assurance born out of solid taleem, pays its dividend because this way one can win the confidence of the audience. Since we do not get the erudite audiences of yore, we have to cultivate and educate our listeners all at once. But this is also true that path breaking musicians like Kumar Gandharva or Kishori Amonkar have mesmerised one and all with their sheer conviction and inimitable style.Who are your favourite musicians?I like Begum Akhtar for her emotive style, Kesarbai Kerkar for her pure aakar and Kishori Amonkar for her ability to completely immerse herself in melody. Yet I opt not to do anything that is not justified on the grounds of purity. Once I mention the name of gharana and raga, I must stay committed to that style and its specific version of raga because treatment of ragas differs from gharana to gharana!MEENA BANERJEE
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121850100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/18/images/2009121850100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEXTRAORDINARY Shruti Sadolikar at a performance.
p14
ss.