(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich in melody and rhythm
p3
sVnews
p4
VSULOCHANA PATTABHIRAMANIt is not a frequent sight that three artistes of successive generations occupy centre stage on the concert platform and perform in tandem. The flute triad featuring N. Ramani, R. Thiagarajan and R. Atul Kumar presented a fulfilling concert at the Margazhi Utsav organised by Jaya TV.  The K.S.Krishnamurthi varnam in Kathanakuthoohalam set the platform for an enjoyable evening of music on the flute. The Harikhambodi masterpiece of Tyagaraja has a characteristic bearing that was amply reflected in the song version with weighty contours and soft nuances. The swarakalpana by the trio with uncomplicated divisions and sub-divisions in the dhaivatam topped with a simple solfa finale were rich in melody and rhythmically perfect. S. Varadarajan on the violin exuded confidence in his answering statements and where there is justified confidence half the battle is won. No main artiste needs to worry about intrusive percussion accompaniment when Vellore Ramabhadran is in charge of the laya section.   Kannan (morsing)  made impressive inroads in the sphere and along with Ramabhadran ensured a spirited, cheerful atmosphere. Ramani's alapana of Mohanam was a copybook exposition. Varadarjan met the challenge with a positive approach. The swara sequences for Tyagaraja's `Marimari' in Misra Chapu dotted with a few arithmetical calculations and the ever-pleasing  sarvalagu chains were well-organised and free from roadblocks. Atulkumar's Shanmukhapriya passed the litmus test of rasika appreciation. Yet it would do him well to concentrate more on sustained karvais and initial slow sancharas to be crowned with the faster brigas at the end  to enhance the quality of the exercise. The Panchama varja prayogas on the violin were captivating.`Saravanabhava' of Papanasam Sivan without the customary hint of the Chatusruti dhaivatam in the Pallavi deserved plaudits for the care on grammatical correctness. `Nadaloludai' had a wealth of "Sukha Bhava." Thiagarajan's Khambodi was marked by clean blowing and steady fingering, though elongated notes around which bhava laden phrases are structured and conducive to a more mellifluent edifice. Raga delineations with a solid strong base are bound to register better than packing phrases one after another in rapid succession with the result the listener gets little time to appreciate what has been offered, and the loss is both for the performer and the audience. `Aadadhu Asangadhu' by Oothukkadu Venkatasubbaiyer and the swara passages had a blithe spirit and with Ramabhadran in his element and the morsing vidwan cooperating handsomely, the rasikas were led spiritedly to a foot-tapping zone. Ramabhadran has been in the performing arena for more years than one can remember, yet his zeal and commitment should be an example  for young aspirants. His tani avartanam with Kannan was gentle rhythmic poetry sporting no irrelevant exhibitionism. The sweet strains of Sama and Sadasiva Brahmendra's `Manasa Sancharare' so beautifully set to music by the Master Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, were aural treats. Sindhubhairavi came alive in the brief delineation of Ramani and Swati Tirunal's `Visveswara Darsana' brought the curtain down in style.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122202101000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122202101001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSOFT NUANCES: (From left) Autul Kumar, N. Ramani, Thiagarajan.
p14
ss.