(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPromising fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARArtistes in the field of playing flute are fast dwindling, for the simple reason that it is a difficult instrument to play and there are no competent gurus either. More importantly, lack of encouragement is also a discouraging factor. Kalasagaram gave an opportunity to Hemanand Narayan of Tirupati to perform on the instrument last week. T. Hemamalini accompanied him on the violin, Tanjavoor Ramdas on the mridangam and Trivandrum Rajagopal on the kanjira.Narayan has indeed good command on the instrument, but his strength in playing at themandara sthayiis evidently inadequate. Thenada, which is the vital factor in the instrument, is feeble throughout and more so in the lower octave. Perhaps, a slight change on thesrutimight help him. In terms ofmanodharmahe has good imagination, swift and penetrating conception of ideas, and a will to perform. However, in creating beauty rather than the pursuit of melody, he loses the delicacy of decoration. Instrumental music, by and large, suffers from the inadequacy of lyrical expression and in trying to compensate this, the player must adopt thegayakistyle.The selection of  items was certainly good. Theata tala varnaminkaanadaaugured well and an uncommonkriti, inmanoranjanipaved the way forbhuvinidasudaniinsriranjani. Thekriti, manasa etulorthuneinmalayamaruthacame next with the usualsangathisand the routine style of playingswarakalpana. Yet again, a rarekriti, nijamugaradainkeeravanimade a passing impact.Panchashathpita rupiniinkarnataka devagandhariwas a notable introduction. Narayan's acumen came to the fore in the item,Kamboji. Theragawas well elaborated and the songmarakathavallicame off fine. Narayan's manodharmasangithayet needs design and decoration, in terms ofalapanaandswarakalpana.The accompaniment on the violin was on a low key and hardly contributed to the overall concert. The percussion duo did their best to elevate the standard, but could not do much. It is generally true that when the main artiste fails to uphold the high standard of performance, the accompanists also lose their enthusiasm. The overall impact of the concert was poor but the young artiste has enthusiasm and a passionate desire to come up. With more experience and exposure he is bound to achieve his ambition.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/25/stories/2005112501990300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/25/images/2005112501990301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHemanand Narayan has good imagination and a will to perform.
p14
ss.