(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRemembering Purandara Dasa
p3
sVnews
p4
VAncient Kannada literature has been classified into two parts  -Vyasa SahityaandDasa Sahitya. The former  consists of translation of Sri Vedavyasa's original works in Sanskrit into Kannada like the Vedas, Bramhasutras, Puranas, Bharata, Bhagavata and so on besides original works of Sri Madhwacharya likeAnu Vyakhyanaand others, commentaries on them by Jayateertha Charya , besides original works of the commentators.Dasa Sahityaconsists of variousKirtans, Ugadigalu, Suladigaluand more by the Haridasas of Karnataka, right from Sri Sripada Rajaruand Purandara Dasa up to modern times. This year Purandara Dasa's  aradhana falls on January 29. The divine saint composer of the 16th century regarded as Sangitha Pitamaha enriched the Kannada literature with his superb, devotional compositions numbering 4,75,000.All theKirtanasspeak of the supremacy of Lord Vishnu.In one composition, he illustrates the efficacy and supremacy ofRama Nama, so dear to Gandhi,Rama Mantrava-Japiso-Hee-Manuja-Aaa Mantra-yii - Mantra - Japisi - Kedalu Beda-Somasekhara-Tanna-Bhamage-Helida Mantra. (Rama Nama is a powerful mantra capable of warding of all evils and calamities, sung incessantly even by gods like Brahma.) Purandara Dasa was a social reformer also.He criticised Brahmanism, which laid stress on external rituals, when he declared in one of hiskirtanasthat Madi-Madi-yendu-Adigadige-Haruve-Madi-Maduva-Bage-Beruntu Podavi-Palakna-Pada- Dhyanavanu-Bidade - Maduvada-Madiyu - Hotte Volagina-Kama-Krodha - Mada-Matsarya - Bittu-Madidare - Adu Madiyu(simply wearing wet clothes is noMadi- discarding the evils of anger, jealousy, hatred and so on which is inside you is realMadi).Purandara Dasa, a billionaire, turned a sanyasi overnight, renouncing all his riches and propertyand established himself as a Haridasa.  Hiskirtanashold a wealth of wisdom as he  advises not to be carried away by the ephemeral pleasures, social status, power and so on.Yi-Siriya-Nambi-Higgalu Beda-Manave-Vasudevana-Bhajisi-Sukhiyagu-Manave(Don't be misled by this wealth but salute Vasudeva and be happy. Be humble and useful to your fellow-beings.)A saint, a philosopher, devotee, musician, scholar, poet and a social reformer, Sri Purandara Dasa led a holistic life.R. DWARAKANATHA RAO & R.B. PRAVEENBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/27/stories/2006012701350200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/27/images/2006012701350201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSaint Purandara Dasa
p14
ss.