(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGhatam becomes cynosure of all eyes
p3
sVnews
p4
VSukanya Ramgopal, the only female artist who can play the ghatam, was conferred  the award Laya Vadya Chathura jointly by Anna Nagar Music Circle Trust and Sri Sadhguru Sangeetha Vidyalaya. It was apt that her guru,  veteran Vikku Vinayakaram, presen\u000ated the award. Vinayakaram, who was one of the chief guests, recalled how his father Sri Harihara Sharma was instrumental in encouraging Sukanya during her initial stages and also praised the positive role played by her husband Ramgopal in assisting in full measure in the growth and development of Sukanya.Nadopasana Srinivasan, the other chief guest, said that the award was in  recognition of the hard work that has been done by Sukanya whose single-minded devotion to her art had won her laurels.  Dr. Jayanthi Kumaresh, veena player, said that Sukanya who wielded the Manamadurai ghatam, was brave enough to make inroads into this male-dominated percussion segment of our music and said that she had accompanied all senior musicians.Sukanya in her acceptance speech thanked the organisations for choosing her and specially thanked Padmavathy Ananthagopalan, veena vidhushi, for selecting a percussionist for the award. She thanked her parents, her in-laws and her husband, without whose support she would not have attained this position of fame, and also thanked her co-artistes for their unfailing cooperation.Two Ghata Tharang concerts, by Sthree Thaal Tharang, conceived and directed by Sukanya Ramgopal showed that she must have applied her mind fully in organising them. The Bharath Kalachar event, being inaugural,  began with a Mallari in Ghambeera Naattai, to coincide with their inaugural function. Sukanya had arranged all the ghatams in the scale of the raga to play the mallari.  &#8216;Pranamaamyaham&#8217; in Gowlai and &#8216;Shobillu&#8217; in Jaganmohini were the other kritis that were taken up. Sujanya&#8217;s team consisted of  Yoga Vandana (veena), Jyothsna Manjunath (violin), Ranjani Venkatesh (mridangam) and Bhagyalakshmi (morsing).In the concert held under the auspices of Anna Nagar Music Circle, the violin accompaniment was provided by Deepa K Murthi.  All those on the stage were bundles of unbridled musical energy and helped Sukanya make this pioneering adaptation of the ghatam a huge success. They seemed to exult in the creative tension that was visible on the stage.Sukanya was  seated, but her mind, apart from her hands were busy,   working with with amazing alacrity. Now and then ,she  had to tap all the ghatams, six in number, in a single stroke. The ghatam was thus elevated  to give it a special status by making it ascend the concert platform as a centre-stage item.The Ragam-Thanam-Pallavi, at both places in Adi Thalam, had its extraordinary features. All nadais &#8212; chathusram, thisram, kandam &#8212; were not only included, but the pallavi eduppus were  made to coincide with the nadai that was being played. The pallavi therefore was given sufficient rounds to achieve this end. And if you wish  to take liberties in Carnatic music and seek unhindered improvisation, it is better to rely on your own compositions. Three of Ghata Tharang&#8217;s compositions presented were the Konnakkol Tharang in Amruthavarshini (Misra Chapu), another in Kunthalavarali (Adi thalam) and a final piece in Suddha Dhanyasi (Eka thalam). The other conventional kritis included &#8216;Alai Payudhe&#8217; (Kaanada) and Bhagyadha Lakshmi Baramma.Attempts of this nature have to be fully supported. They  serve well as a happy variation for the rasikas  besides showcasing percussion in a new dimension.Sukanya Ramgopal says a few things about her performance:&#8220;I used six ghatams and the main sruthi was 5 kattai. selected the other ghatams so that I could at least manage one octave - each ghatam representing each swara in that particular octave, beginning with the basesa(lower).It is just impossible to play all three octaves. I had to go around in search for these ghatams.It was a thrilling exercise. I learnt vocal music when I was young and I can play on the violin too, and have learnt many kirtanas.This probably lead me into making my/our own compositions.Normally festivals begin with the Managala Isai from the Nagaswaram and I felt greatly honoured that Mrs. YGP, of Bharath Kalachar, had given me this opportunity &#8212; I mean the inaugural concert.The ghatam is said to contain the Panchaboothas (five elements  and we  play five nadais in the kalpanaswaras, which would include the mel kala chathusram also.&#8221;
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/02/stories/2009010250920200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/01/02/images/2009010250920202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VONE OF HER KIND:Sukanya Ramgopal, (below) the all-woman kutcheri and felicitation by Anna Nagar Music Circle.
p14
ss.