(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVaggeyakara festival
p3
sVnews
p4
VA five-day Vaggeyakara festival was organised by Andhra Music Academy (founded and managed by Sadguru Sriman K. Sivanandamurty) at Kalabharathi.Dedicated to the memory of Syamasastri, the first evening started auspiciously withMangalavaadyamon nadaswaram by AIR A-grade artiste Gurivilli Appanna and group. Pantulu Rama rendered compositions of the composer in the able company of her husband M. Srinivasa Narasimhamurty on violin and Vankayala Venaktaramana Murty on mridangam (both staffers of AIR, VSKP), who sustained the tempo with gusto contributing grandeur. No wonder, it turned out to be a racy fulfilment of all intricacies of a conventional concert of high professional standards.Expansive elaboration ofKaamakshi(Begada) andTallininnu(Kalyani) were the highlights. The next evening witnessed rendition of compositions of Patnam Subrahmanya Iyer and Swathi Tirunal to start with by K. Vandana of Tirupathi in the typical concert format. Exploiting the inherent melody in her voice to the hilt, in the company of Ch. Sanyasirao on violin and G. Venkatarao on mridangam, she gave an impressive rendering. Evocative rendering ofSankara Srigirinaadha Prabhoof Swathi Tirunal (Hamsanandi) andNeepaadamegathi(Bhairavi) of Patnam Subrahmanya Iyer with meaningfulaalapana, neravuandswarammarked the concert..Achieving a fine amalgam of purity ofsruthiandlayaand evolving sublimenaadawith articulate perfection in their resonant voices, R. Thyagarajan of Bangalore and R. Taranaadham of Mysore, known as Rudrapatnam brothers, starting with avarnamof Mysore Vasudevachar in Mandari, kept the houseful audience glued enthralled all the way till they concluded with a Thilana of the same composer in Kalyani.Elaboration of Idisamayamu (Natakapriya) and Marachithivemo (Purvikalyani) of Vasudevachar and Pogidirelo in Sankarabharanam (Purandharadasa) stood out as haunting melodies. Ampolu Muralikrishna of Vijayawada on violin, V. Kamalakara Rao of Rajahmundry in particular on mridangam and K.Ramesh from Tirupathi on kanjeera both in their following and in turns appeared resplendently splendid.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/07/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/07/18/stories/2008071850140200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/07/18/images/2008071850140201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.