(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWorthy in their own ways
p3
sVnews
p4
VGARIMELLA SUBRAMANIAMWhen  Madurai T.N.S.Krishna struck a loud and sonorous note calling to Amba, in the course of singing Syama Sastri's `Ninnuvinaga Mari' in  Purvikalyani, he signalled his arrival as a front-ranking musician.Inevitably, all eyes, ears rather, must have been on Krishna, as this year's Sangeetha Kalanidhi  T.N.Seshagopalan's son sought to place his own imprints on the fertile soils of classical music.That emotionally charged delivery of the kriti, one may say, possibly with some exaggeration, conveyed more meaning than all the compositions that were presented that afternoon.Tyagaraja's `Kaddannuvariki' in  Hanumathodi in particular, gave a touch of the father's style, a hint of sruti bedham, an animated dialogue between Krishna and his violinist and a frenzied spell of improvisation.Earlier, Patnam Subramanya Iyer's `Abhimanamennadu' was a very enjoyable encounter. The varnam in  Saveri which was decorated with kalpanaswara was again typical of his father's way of doing things, not to forget `Saravanabhava Samayamidira' of Muthaiah  Bhagavatar.And of course, a Ragam Tanam Pallavi was just waiting for the asking. It was in another scale which, just as  Purvikalyani, uses the sharp fourth note prominently &#151;  Shanmukhapriya. But this one is from one of the 72 basic melodic scales.The pallavi, `Paravasam Miga Agude! Unnai Ninaindu Ninaindu Kanna, Nenjam' was rich in melody and exhibited ample variation as Krishna kept the composition to kanda jati triputa talam.Oothukkadu Venkatakavi's ragamalika in Hindolam, Atana and Bilahari &#151;  `Vandhuketpar Illaiyo' concluded a splendid performance.Shertalai Sivakumar on the violin was more convincing in the exposition of Purvikalyani and M.S.Varadan on the mridangam and K.V.Gopalakrishnan who played the kanjira made  a brilliant percussion duo.Melodic appealSriram Gangadharan was obviously a big hit with the audience. But the kutcheri would have been captivating had he chosen songs set in different tempo. Tyagaraja's `Sri Ganapatini,' in raga Saurashtram, Dikshitar's `Balagopala,' in Bhairavi and Syama Sastri's `Bangaru Bomma,' in Neelambari were all brilliant in their melodic appeal, use of ornamentation and skill in improvisation.Each  kriti was featured for the first-time in the current series and this in itself would have added to the interest of the listeners. But Gangadharan also needed to present kritis that are seemingly light, lively and fast.The Ragam, Tanam, Pallavi was in raga Nattakurunji where the vocalist displayed great command and control over his voice.The pallavi,  `Rama, Srirama, Pattabhirama, Dasarathabala Sitaramana,'  in Chatusra Jampa talam (misranadai) was equally absorbing. Perhaps the lone exception to an otherwise sedate performance was `Samaganapriye Amba Sarvaloka Nayakiye,' in raga Anandabhairavi by Periyasami Thooran, popularised by G.N.Balasubramaniam. Charumathi Raghuraman who played the violin demonstrated that consistency was one of her many strengths. B.Sivaraman on the mridangam and Anirudh Athreya, on the kanjira displayed their considerable skill.Resonant voiceK.Gayathri's resonant voice, confident tone of presentation and overall calibre of music added up to a very worthy first appearance at the Music Academy. The concluding pancharagamalika, or more appropriately Panchakalyani kriti of her guru Suguna Purushottaman, with evocative lyrics and much else, deserve special mention, although the young vocalist didn't fail to sing the Kedaragowla varnam of Tiruvottriyur Tyagayyar, one that listeners had heard almost on alternate days during the fortnight.Gayathri was full of grace as she sang Swati Tirunal's `Jeyajeya Padmanabhanujesha,' in Manirangu with some ornamentation at the end. One of the major compositions that followed was in Varali  -   Dikshitar's `Mamava Meenakshim,' in a slow tempo. Her lucid essay of the ragam with repeated forays into the higher octave was well worth the effort.Dikshitar's other masterpiece `Srisubrahmanyaya Namaste,' in Khambodi was brilliantly presented, beginning with the alapana and the niraval at `Vasavadi Sakaladeva Vanditaya Varenyaya,' and improvisation. The concluding piece, penned by Suguna Purushottaman is perhaps unique of its kind. Set in ragas Kalyani, Poorvikalyani, Hamirkalyani, Mohanakalyani and Yamunakalyani, the composition on Lord Krishna was highly appealing.Gayathri's young accompanists, S.Karthick on the violin and S.J.Arjun Ganesh on the mridangam, both of whom are probably in their teens were highly impressive in their respective performances.Welcome changePanthula Rama's recital was different among other reasons perhaps also because, as a non-resident of Chennai, the chances are that she is less likely to have been guided by assumptions about the kritis and ragas that go down more or less well with the local audience. The vocalist from Visakhapatnam opened her singing with Papanasam Sivan's `Tatvamariya Tarama' in  Ritigowla, which was itself a welcome change from Kedaragowla that had almost become a routine with musicians.But closer to the issue of our discussion were Tyagaraja's `Yennadu Jootuno Inakulatilaka' in  Kalavati and Dikshitar's `Palayamam Brihadiswara' in  Nayaki. In the composition in Kalavati and generally in the rest of the recital, what was evident was Panthula Rama's intelligent and effective use of kalpanaswaras, mostly in short spells and showing variation in tempo (kalapramanam). The first major composition was in  Khambodi and Dikshitar's `Kailasanathena Samrakshitoham' with a beautiful niraval on the opening line itself. `Rajaraja Rajite Rajakalasarade' of Muthaiah  Bhagavatar in  Niroshta was a brisk song to fill in the interlude. And Rama had a clear one hour ahead when she commenced the ragam tanam pallavi in  Varali.The pallavi, `Madhurapuri Nilaye'  in tisra jati triputa talam saw the lead artiste and her accompanist on the violin exploring different ways of adding substance to the lyrics.Among Panthula Rama's lighter melodies, Narayana Tirtha's tarangam `Nandanandana Gopala'  was a delight to listen to, both for the lyrics as well as the ragamalika in ragas Valaji, Dwijavanti, Kalyanavasantam and Purandaradasa's `Tamburi Meetidava Bhavabdi Datidava' in  Sindhubhairavi was equally appealing with the vibrant beat.  N.C.H.Krishnamacharyulu's tillana in  Atana concluded the memorable recital.The disciple of her father Panthula Gopalarao and later the distinguished Ivaturi Vijayesvararao,  Panthula Rama was accompanied on the violin by her husband M.S.N.Murthy who gave a masterful delivery.Mannargudi Subramaniam was impressive, particularly in his solo performance.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601900500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/26/images/2007012601900505.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPanthula Rama.
p14
ss.