(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSoulful recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. JAYAKUMARWhen B.V. Balasai poured out his soul into his flute, what came forth carried his listeners to another world. A world full of love, devotion and tranquillity, that was in perfect harmony with nature.It was Balasai's maiden flute recital in the capital city on the fourth day of the Chembai Music Festival observed in connection with the 109th birth anniversary celebrations of the late Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar. The Sri Chembai Memorial Trust, Thiruvananthapuram organised the festival.Main compositionThe main composition of the evening was a very popular Thyagaraja kriti `Yethavoo Neelakadale... ' in Kalyani set to Adi talam. He began with an elaborateragavistaram, which often had traces of the famous Dr. N. Ramani'sbani, yet its distinctive style enthralled the audience.His portrayal of Kalyani was impeccable with remarkable measure of nuanced phrases. This was followed by a thaniavarthanam on the mridangam by Trivandrum Vaidyanathan and on the ghatam by Trivandrum Karthikeyan.Balasai began his flute recital with Chalamelara in Nattakurinji set to Adi talam. This was followed by a composition of Muthuswamy Dikshitar's `Sidhivinayakam... ' in Shanmughapriya depictingbhakti rasain its vibrant mood in Roopaka talam.Evocative musicBesides, rendering Swati Tirunal's `Krupaya palaya... ' in Charukeshi,  Balasai came up with a Thyagaraja composition `Neevada nee... ' in Saranga set to Khandchappu talam in an exuberant mood. Then, `Mamavathu Shree Saraswathi... ' in Hindolam, a kriti by Mysore Vasudeva Acharya, was recited.Other pieces included the Swati Tirunal composition `Visveswara Darsana Karo... ' in Sindhubhairavi set to Roopaka talam, and a Thyagaraja kriti in Kannada. T.H. Subramany accompanied on the violin and ably supported the flautist.The two-and-a-half hour concert concluded with a thillana of Madurai T. Srinivasan in Sumarasaranjini, a rare raga in Adi talam.Through his unique style of presentation and creativity, Balasai has been able to carve out a niche for himself in the field of wind instruments.Except for the mridangam thaniavarthanam, which seemed unduly long given its slow pace, the concert was impressive.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/26/stories/2005082601070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/26/images/2005082601070201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELLIFLUOUS RENDITION: B.V. Balasai performing at the Chembai Music Festival.
p14
ss.