(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMridangam as the supreme percussion instrument
p3
sVnews
p4
VPAPPU VENUGOPAL RAOThree Sangeeta Kalanidhis came together to present a lecture demonstration on ``Mridangam And Its High Voltage Art" led by Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman.The participants were T. K. Govinda Rao, R. Vedavalli and P. Vasantha Kumar.Sivaraman stressed that place of mridangam as an accompaniment instrument was supreme in the percussion world.T. K. Govinda Rao, who said that Carnatic music was composition-oriented He quoted from the compositions of Tyagaraja, about the place of sangati and the importance of practice for musicians. He said that there were two varieties of mridangam players &#151;  those who play for the tala and those who play for song.Vedavalli emphasised the role of mridangists as a source of inspiration to the vocalist. The mridangist should highlight the nuances in different tempos, she said.Listing the dos and don'ts for the mridangist, quoted Rajamanikkam Pillai and said that the mridangist should follow the vocalist like a faithful wife.He dwelt on how a mridangist should play to different voices without exposing the defects of a vocalist.  With Vedavalli singing the Viriboni Varnam, Govinda Rao demonstrated various compositions to show different kinds of Adi talam. He demonstrated the madhyadi variety of adi tala by singing Tyagaraja's `Enduku Pedala'. Vedavalli presented `Akshyaa Linga Vibho' of Dikshitar and presented a speedy composition, `Nenarunchinanu'. Vasanta Kumar played  ``Darini Telusukonti" on the veena, while Sivaraman emphasised playing for sangatis. For neraval demonstration, Govinda Rao took up ``Sailaraja Tanaya" following it up with a kavadi cindu.  The entire lecture demonstration revolved round the basics of mridangam playing techniques for various compositions of Carnatic music.Sivaraman supplemented his lecture demonstration with another on the final day dealing with the etymology of the word mridangam mrit +angam &#151;  made of clay, actually from the banks of the Ganga.Lalgudi Jayaraman  traced his tradition to Tyagaraja Swamy, whose disciple was his great grand father Sri Lalgudi Ramayya. Jayaraman said that he was inspired by Bismillah Khan and Rajaratnam Pillai. He acknowledged the influence of many stalwarts for whom he played as an accompanist like Ariyakkudi, Musiri, Chembai, GNB, Semmangudi, MDR and so on.Lalgudi baniThe Lalgudi bani basically gives importance to literature and the lyric but it encompasses the entire gamut of music, the veteran observed. Even a brief touch of the bow some times demonstrates it and any raga can be identified by the very first phrase, he said. Saveri, Kalyani, Amruta Vahini and Subha Panthuvarali were demonstrated from tape.Splitting of words without sacrificing the raga bhava, fillers between pallavi and anupallavi or anupallavi and charanam were demonstrated through the songs, ``Paranmukhamemi" and ``Amba Nee" of Papanasanam Sivan.Krishnan, who read the paper for Lalgudi said, one should be able to take notations from what was played on the violin and be able to sing it.Taken up for demonstration was the chittaswaram played by Lalgudi and his sister in a 1965 concert at the Music Academy in Balahamsa.This was followed by Durgadevi in Navarasakanada of Muthaiah Bhagavatar. Swara is played where the importance is melody and not mathematics, it was pointed out.  As a Vaggeyakara also, Lalgudi adhered to these principals and listed some of the compositions in Valaja, Mohana, Pahadi, Vasanti, etc., in support.As an accompanying instrument violin should follow the vocalist and showed an example of Madurai Mani Iyer 's neraval. Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi and Krishnan offered excellent support with Ramesh accompanying commendably on the mridangam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010602980500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010602980502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUmayalpuram Sivaraman
p14
ss.