(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrings of poetry
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was truly a rare experience when last Monday, at a concert jointly organised by Delhi Sangeet Sabha and the India Habitat Centre, sitar maestro Mahmud Mirza opened his recital with raga Barwa. There was a time when Barwa was a favourite raga of the Agra gharana vocalists while singers belonging to other gharanas like Gwalior, Patiala, Jaipur-Atrauli and Bhendi Bazar too lavished some attention on it. However, it has nearly gone into oblivion over the past many decades and one seldom comes across a vocalist these days who would attempt this raga. When Barwa is being subjected to such neglect by vocalists, one can hardly blame instrumentalists if they do not choose it for their recitals.However, it was not a rare experience to listen to Mahmud Mirza only because he played a rarely heard raga. What made it an unforgettable journey into the seldom explored garden of Barwa was the nuanced manner he employed to reveal its mysteries.Mirza was trained from the early age of six by his maternal uncle Haider Husain Khan who was a doyen of the Senia Jaipur gharana, tracing its lineage to the legendary Tansen. After his untimely death, Mirza learnt the intricacies of Hindustani classical music from renowned musicologist Jeevanlal Mattoo who was a disciple of the great Kirana gharana stalwart Abdul Wahid Khan. In the typical Kirana style, he offered a detailed alap-jod-jhala presentation. To most musicians, Barwa is not a major raga. Although it has traces of Kafi, Sindhura and Desi, it has a personality of its own. Mirza accorded it the importance it deserves and his expanded alap was truly an essay in musical imagination. As it were, he wrote poetry on the sitar.His mizrab (plectrum) strokes were breathtaking in their boldness and varying patterns while the plucking of the strings produced scintillating taans and beautiful cadences. He was less expansive in the jod and jhala sections but one could not help noticing that his jhala was unlike what is generally heard in such concerts. After dealing with Barwa in a masterly fashion, Mirza switched over to a slow Maseetkhani gat in Rageshree and followed it up with a fast Razakhani gat in the same raga. He concluded his recital with a medium fast Razakhani gat in Pilu.While he eschewed sentimentalism, his recital was not short on emotional content. Even in the rendering of the supposedly light raga Pilu, he maintained high standards of classicism and remained lyrical without sounding maudlin. When one takes into account the fact that when Mirza was shaping up as a sitar player, Ravi Shankar and Vilayat Khan had already established themselves as the new masters of the instrument, one marvels at his ability to fashion his own individualistic style different from everybody else's.Tabla maestro Subhash Nirwan provided excellent accompaniment with his restrained yet virtuoso performance. Jagdish Kumar on the tanpura was competent.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSitar maestro Mahmud Mirza
p14
ss.