(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVisual poetry on Adi Sankara
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe advent of Adi Sankara 1,200  years ago was of tremendous significance to the religious, cultural and spiritual history of India.  While he could be highly polemical for the world of scholars, he could come down to the level of the common man with ease and give him encapsulated wisdom in a prayer like "Bhaja Govindam." Thus it is appropriate that everyone should have an accurate knowledge of Adi Sankara's life as an inspiration for his/her  life's work.With this aim, Sridhar Chityala and Sharada Chityala of the U.S.  have brought out a visual mix of drama, dance, poetry and music planned with dedication. It opens with a Siva-Parvati dance which concludes with the Lord's assurance that he will manifest upon the earth.Sankara is born to Sivaguru and Aryamba. The story gets told through a mix of folkdance and Bharatanatyam.The journeyShankara's capacity to invoke the divine is suggested by the `Kanakadhara Stotra,' and the manner in which the river Poorna is brought close to his house. Swiftly, we pass through the episode which leads to Sankara's sanyasa. He goes to the cave on the banks of the Narmada and the guru asks: "Who are you?" The unhesitating reply comes: "I am not the earth, nor water, nor fire nor any of the tattvas. I am that which is beyond all this!" Govinda Pada is pleased with this crystalline exposition of Advaita and initiates him into sanyasa.We move with Adi Sankara on his peregrinations as he gains wisdom from the chandala, writes commentaries to Prasthana Traya in Badari, meets Vyasa, gathers his disciples, defeats Mandana Misra in a philosophical duel,  overcomes  the Kalamukhas, founds the Sringeri Peetam  and withdraws from the physical when journeying in the Himalayas. It is a sublime narrative.The director, Ramesh Begar, has had an unenviable task on hand for his subject is one the greatest spiritual luminaries of all time. His choice of various styles makes the narrative avoid ennui but then, Begar has had to accommodate three languages! Tamil has been chosen for the narrative and songs and unfortunately the pronunciation is not satisfactory.Sri V.R. Gowrishankar's English speech on the discovery of Kaladi and its development in the last century as well as Adi Sankara's relevance to the modern world could have been presented in segments.But all doubts vanish when  H.H. Sri Bharati Tirtha Mahaswami, the present Pontiff of Sringeri Math appears on the screen and delivers his Sanskrit speech.His choice of simple words to get his profound ideas across is marvellous.  As promised in the Gita, the Lord manifests whenever dharma is in danger and Adi Sankara was such a glorious manifestation.Of all his teachings, the most important is the giving up of ego. Ahamkara is the root of all evil. Always  go in for good company (sajjana-sangam) and engage yourself in alleviating the miseries of fellowmen (paropakaram). One must practise unswerving devotion to the Lord and to one's guru.  And till one gains Advaitic Oneness with the Brahman, one must carry on one's duties in this world of human affairs. The Mahaswami's message ought to be imbibed and acted upon by all the adherents of Sanatana Dharma.Finally, three cheers to  H.M. Nagaraja Rao for his lyrics and music, and to B. Subrahmanya for his camera work that wraps up in silken sheen the Kerala countryside and appropriately uses orange colours symbolising mystic consciousness throughout the narrative.For VCDs contact: Sri V. R. Gowrishankar, Administrator, Sri Sharadha Peetam, Sringeri  -   577 139 (Ph: 08265-250 123).PREMA NANDAKUMARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/22/stories/2005072200190300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/22/images/2005072200190301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMix of dance, drama and poetry.
p14
ss.