(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYoung artistes dazzle
p3
sVnews
p4
VKALASAGARAM'S ANNUAL  youth programme has been doing yeoman service in projecting the up-and-coming artistes in the field of Carnatic music. Almost all the leading present day artistes    made their debut in concert music only after being exposed  to Kalasagaram  programmes. The annual music competition conducted by the organisation has acted as an overture to these programmes, where one of the participants   would be presented with the `tambura' prize.  This year three vocal concerts  were presented  by singers from Tamil Nadu and all the programmes were  well attended.On the first day,  young Priyadarshini Varadarajan   displayed professional acumen . For instance, to attempt a ragam, thanam and pallavi, and execute it without any flaw, is an amazing effort. Rightly, it was well applauded. Commencing with `natakuranji varnam,' she built up the tempo with  `Sri Maha Ganapathi' in Gowla. `Balakanakamaya' in `Atana' gave added thrill. The rare krithi, Palimpavamma' in `Mukhari' was well received. Alapana of Kamboji and the kriti,  `Yemaiaha Rama' was delineated with .with a scholarly ease. She has great aspirations and  willpower to work. With greater experience and proper guidance, she will certainly prove a great artiste.Mature performanceAlthough the programme  was meant to promote talent, Padmavathi who participated in the vocal concert on the following day  could be   bracketed among the mature .artistes. She has already reached professional standards and can compete with stalwarts in the field. The concert had all the embellishments of a  good concert , . Kedaragowla varnam augured the concert that was followed by  `Sri Maha Ganapathi' in Atana. With   the tempo picking up, she switched on to varali and the krithi karunajudavamma was set with intense feeling. The raga was a little overplayed and therefore was  slightly out of proportion with the krithi; even so, was the swarakalpana. `Shankarabharana' was the highlight of the concert. The raga was elaborate with little or no repetitions and the song `Endukupeddala' was laced with imaginative sangathis. Padmavathi, can well afford to reduce the proportion of fast phrases in her alapana, which certainly gives a more mature impression. `Saraswathi' was chosen for ragam, thanam and pallavi. The pallavi set to adi thalam, khanada nadai,  was executed with ease. Komanduri Krishna, the well-known violinist in the  twin cities gave pleasant support and Arvind on the mridangam added pleasant flavour to the concert.Thambura prizeVilasini, who won the thambura prize of  the annual competition, took the stage on the final day. Vilasini is still too young; but for her age she has achieved much more than one can expect.Her voice is commanding and can  adapt to any manipulation. She has a good perception of raga alapana and swarakalpana. If the krithis she sang, lacked verve, it was inadequate padanthara. Opening with a varnam in Ranjani, she moved on to a  `Vinayaka sthuthi in Hamsadwani. `Brochevarevarura' in Kamach proved very impressive. Kalyani alapana was inadequate, but the krithi, `Ammaravamma' was moving. She spent considerable time in the raga development of thodi, but could not come out with charismatic sangathis. Even the krithi, `Ninne namminanu' of Shyama Sastry was a routine rendering. The team, with  Satish Kumar on the violin and Sai Ram on the mridangam, evidently need experience although  they have excellent talent.B.R.C. IyengarBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/03/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/03/11/stories/2005031101420300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/03/11/images/2005031101420301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPadmavathi performed with mature and professional ease
p14
ss.