(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHype with some hope
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHSuryaprakash is endowed with a good voice and musical repertoire and put in an impressive showThis concert evinced interest for more than one reason. A disciple of T.V. Sankaranarayanan, he represents the great Madurai Mani Iyerbaani. The invitation card also termed it as a concert by a "popular rising star" in the field of Carnatic music. And R. Suryaprakash lived up to the hype, endowed as he is with a good voice and musical repertoire.He put up an impressive show during his concert held under the aegis of Shree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha at New Delhi's Malai Mandir recently.Suryaprakash began his concert with Muthuswami Dikshitar's popular kriti "Vaatapi Ganapatim" in the raga Hamsadhwani. This was followed by a Tamil composition of Duraiswamy Kavirayar's, "Innum paaramugam yeno" in the raga Begada, in which he gave adequate importance to the sahitya contents.Muthiah Bagavatar's "Sahasra karamandite" in the raga Vachaspati, was marked by a detailed alap of the raga and lively swaraprastaras in fast-tempo, indicative of his manodharma talents. Shyama Sastri's "Maayamma" in the raga Ahiri was handled aesthetically, bringing out the emotional contents. Tyagaraja's "Manavyaalakincha" in the raga Nalinakanti was appealing.Suryaprakash then took up yet another Tyagaraja kriti, "Nagumomukhanaleni" in the raga Abheri.This item was marked by a fine alap of the raga. Singing full throatedly was to his advantage, particularly while traversing the higher octave. Similarly, niraval of the phrase "Jagamele Paramatma yevaritho muraliduthu" and subsequent swaraprastaras were handled creatively.Ragamalika swarasHowever, one failed to understand the need for going in for ragamalika swara patterns  at this stage. After completing the swaraprastaras in the raga Behag and Kedara gowla, Suryaprakash converted the pallavi "Nagumomukhanaleni" from the original Abheri  to these ragas. While such flexibility is available in the ragam-taanam-pallavi, which he did present subsequently, doing so while presenting a kriti of a composer is against the traditionally followed pattern. The violin accompanist  had to follow suit. Suryaprakash  might have done better to avoid this.Similarly, he could have avoided `testing' his `special pallavi', in the midst of Delhi rasikas. The pallavi "Saravanabhava Guhane Shanmukhane" was composed in two ragas, Shanmukhapriya and Nattakuranji, and in Tisra Jaati Triputa tala. The phrase "Saravanabhava Guhane" was composed in the former raga and the phrase "Shanmukhane" in the second.Though he presented a good alap and taanam of the two ragas, the execution of the pallavi was not all that pleasing and enjoyable. Instead, a pallavi composed in a single raga with the usual technicalities could have been more enjoyable.V. V. Srinivasa Rao (from Chennai) on the violin and M.V. Chandrasekhar on the mridangam assisted ably. In particular, Srinivasa Rao's delineation of the ragas Vachaspati and Abheri were pleasing and the subsequent swaraprastaras delightfully handled. Chandrasekhar's understanding support and brief tani avartanam (percussion solo) were enjoyable.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092201200200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.