(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA melodious feast of ragas
p3
sVnews
p4
VSudeshna has an impressive track record. She has also learnt Rabindra Sangeet and is a graded artiste of AIR in this faculty. She calls herself as Bengali Benarsi as she has lived in both Bengal and Benares and was tutored by well known vidwans.She is gifted with a pleasant voice and developed perfect diction and expression, always sporting a cheerful countenance as if enjoying her own music. Her performance on Saturday was a major attraction of the festival of Hindustani music.Sudeshna was, in fact, celebrating four decades of her musical career. She is the student of Ratanmani Bhattacharya, a renowned vidwan.She introduced herself to the audience with humility and narrated her journey in music.&#8220;I was interested in dance but situations drove me to become a vocalist, as Bengali homes did not encourage dance,&#8221; she said.Since there were other brief concerts by some of her disciples, she restricted her repertoire to a majorkhyalinRaag Jog. Supported by two traditional tanpuras and another electronic sruti box, she devolve it well invilambitand as she advanced the pace, the tenor of her vocal vigour too picked up and revealed her good vocal compass.Melody underlined every bit of her performance. It would be better if she avoids the sighing sound at the end of each musical phrase.Her sargams were methodical and melodious.While rendering a Bandish she revealed that it was from the work of poet Gnana Prakash. The lyrics, with philosophic content, states that our life is like sailing in water and the boat moves according to the Karma that each one has in store. She sang and played the harmonium. There were also adrutpart with interesting combinations ofswarastructuring.She concluded her recital with aJayadeva Ashtapadi&#8211;&#8211;Lalita LavanginBasanth Baharthat she took from Motibai. The evening opened with mini concerts by her students. Sudarshana who presented a chotaKhyalin raagYamaninJhaptaland the bandish wasKeejay Karam Hote.Seema, one of her students, presented adadrainJhaptal&#8211;&#8211;Tumhee Jagatguru. Anuradha, a senior student, presentedRag Bhagesriwith bolSakhi Manlagela.She has to improve upon hergamakam. The sargams did not keep pace with tabla occasionally. Anand Patwari was on the tabla. Sudeshna and Anand Bhattacharya lent harmonium support to different artistes.The other programmes arranged as part of this festival were mostly light classical sessions of thumri, ghazal,bhajanand Rabindra Sangeet and an occasional classical concert by Abhijit Bhattacharji.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/04/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/04/11/stories/2008041150470300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.