(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRemembering Subasri
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis year&#8217;s concert was delivered by Gayathri Venkataraghavan. Vishnubhatla Krishnaveni accompanied her on the violin and D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam; the concert was well attended. Gayathri, evidently, is an experienced artiste who respects the traditional values of the ancient art. Her sruti gnana, in particular, is incredible; in combination with her rich voice, and the concert immediately gains credibility. She is shrewd in planning the format of the concert in an orderly way - richmadhyamakalaitems in the beginning, leading slowly to the more classical, sophisticated and intricate patterns as the concert progresses. The tempo is thus rationally built and well sustained till the end; the choice of the ragas and the krithis are equally deft. Devoid of theatricals, the presentation is chaste meeting the needs of the common as well as the connoisseur.The concert augured well with the varnam in sri raga and led togurulekaingowrimanohari; the pace was rather fast butpanthuvaralialapanathat followed was attractive. Like any other lady artiste, Gayathri too has the failing in confining to the greater part of her singing tothara sthayi(huger octave), which effortlessly makes an impact; it was so with thekrithi, piravaram.Swarakalpanafor the song was attractive.Sithapathiinkamachwas again amadhyamakalasong which boosted the tempo.Ganamrithapanaminjyothiswaroopiniof Kotiswaraiyer was a rare and precious item.Gayathri has the failure of losing thekalapramanam(time interval) both in terms of the presentation of the krithi as well asswarakalpan, which results with the loss of melody. The contribution on the violin was reasonably good and the mridangam well supportive. On the day however, D.S.R. Murthy was not quite at home while playing for thevilamba kala(slow tempo); his thani was rather short. All in all, it was a good concert, the memories of which would stay for some time.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/01/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/01/18/stories/2008011851010300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.