(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHe was synonymous with ganjira
p3
sVnews
p4
VAmong those speaking will be Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan, Madurai T. Srinivasan and Radha Bhaskar.  Audio and video clippings of Harishankar&#8217;s concerts will be presented.A booklet on him is also being released that evening. An award in his memory will be given away to ganjira vidwan Mayavaram G. Somasundram. The ceremony will be followed by a percussion concert of N. Amrith, Nerkunam S. Sankar and B. Srisundarkumar .Harishankar&#8217;s passing away at the age  of 43, six years ago, came as a rude shock to the followers of Carnatic music. His fans include frontline musicians, who  miss him a lot on stage. Such was his captivating style.Born to T.T.Govinda Rao and Lakshmi Bai on June 10, 1959, Hari started playing the ganjira even when he was three years old.His father who was with Southern Railway, started training him methodically. By the time he turned five, Hari was playing for Bhajans.He had a stint with Madras A. Kannan before coming under the tutelage of Ramanathapuram C.S.Murugabhupathy.He played his first ever concert when he was seven years old for T.L.Maharajan. Hari was a regular in MLV&#8217;s concerts after he was introduced to her by mridangam vidwan Thanjavur Krishnamurthy Rao.MLV saw to it that Hari honed his skills under Palghat Mani Iyer for about two years.Harishankar had accompanied all the great doyens of yore such as Semmangudi, MS, DKP, DKJ, KVN, M. Balamuralikrishna, Lalgudi, Mali and N. Ramani to name a few. He played with Pt. Ravishankar, Pt. Birju Maharaj and Ustad Zakir Hussain. He was graded &#8220;A Top&#8221; by AIR and was also part of the vadya vrinda group.Recipient of many titles including Kalaimamani and Sangeeth Natak Academy, Harishankar travelled widely in India and outside. Many musicians feel that Hari&#8217;s talent is a gift of God that made him synonymous with his instrument.His deft handling of the ganjira, anticipatory flourishes, memory power in reproducing all that was played by the mridangam player during the thani rounds never failed to amaze the rasikas and the artists.Musicians especially recall the clarity of his ganjira and the drum effect that he could produce. And the fact that he was at home in handling even difficult Pallavis without any rehearsal. Kudos to his admirers for having got up a function to pay tribute to this great artist.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/08/stories/2008020850570300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.