(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe classic  comes back
p3
sVnews
p4
VVirtually, every senior musician you meet gets nostalgia about all those great live concerts they've heard of the past masters. And virtually every student and connoisseur of today wishes he could relive those moments by picking up CD/cassette recordings of the same. Yet, you find very few such records at music stores. Also, there are so many music lovers who long for CDs which, instead of a long list of items, have just one or two ragas with a detailed manodharma exploration.Gifted musician couple Veenai Jayanthi and violinist Kumaresh are making an attempt to change all that with their music-company Home Records launching today.Home Records has several aims. Art for art's sake is the first. So, it will provide a non-commercial-oriented approach to the content of CDs/cassettes. Currently, musicians end up providing what the music company wants and not what he/she himself would like to offer. As musicians themselves, Jayanthi and Kumaresh are aware of this lingering dissatisfaction among artistes. They aim to bridge the gap by allowing an artist the freedom to choose and record content based on his own aesthetic requirements and not driven by market considerations. This will also satisfy musiclovers. "From our experience, many connoisseurs want to listen to records with rare ragas, near-forgotten kritis, and longer alaapanas."Their maiden offering,Sanmaarga, illustrates this. The 55-minute record contains just three tracks by Jayanthi and that too of uncommon items &#151;  a ragam, thaanam, pallavi in Vasantha, an unusual raga choice for this genre; a daru varnam of Mutthaiah Bhagavathar, an equally rare piece; and "Akhilandeshwari". Just what the connoisseur generally misses on the shelves of a music-shop.The second aim is to provide a platform for innovative or experimental music. So, today's inauguration programme jugalbandi will be preceded by percussionist Pramath Kiran's performance. The multi-faceted Kiran is equally adept at the Indian classical morsing and tabla, and African percussions. Kiran combines Indian classical rhythm sounds with electronic music from different world genres. Jayanthi and Kumaresh welcome artists who want to showcase their creativity &#151;  whether in terms of innovative playing style, experiments in concert format, etc. "We are open to good music in any form."Finally, the company will offer CDs/cassettes based on informal recordings made decades ago of live concerts of great masters. Many of these recordings are lying in private collections of the artists' themselves or with their students/friends. Once released commercially, these recordings will be of immense entertainment and educative value to the present generation of music lovers, students and teachers. The couple say that once their company and its products have gained credibility, it will be easier to approach maestros or those in possession of these private records and persuade them to permit a commercial release.It's a small beginning, they say, "more like a home venture, accounting for the name Home Records." However, they hope to grow, and fast. Kumaresh's vision is a chain of Home Records stores all over the country.Home records can be contacted on 26668392. Email:homerecords2006@gmail.comARUNA CHANDARAJUBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011201900300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/12/images/2007011201900301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VOLD IS GOLD  The musician couple Jayanthi and Kumaresh are launching their Home Records today
p14
ss.