(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical Thursdays
p3
sVnews
p4
VC. SURESH KUMARTo organise and ceremoniously conduct music concerts  each Thursday for the last 52 years is a great achievement. `The show must go on' was the motto for this music  loving family  who  started the  concept of arranging  concerts in classical and semi-classical forms every Thursday, way back in 1954.Week after week, the  Guruwar Mandal conducted such musical performances where even  an amateur could participate with senior artistes alongside. One could see the fourth and fifth generation of the founder members of this organisation taking up the lead  to maintain the tradition. The now popular Pt. Motiram Sangeet Samaroh, which takes place year after year in Hyderabad, was first started by this group who  organised it for several years.The Guruwar Mandal celebrated its golden jubilee last month  at the silver jubilee auditorium of Dr. Dawre's upper primary school, Badichowdi, by organising Hindustani classical music concerts.On the inaugural day of the event,  all the founder members were honoured and their contribution to the organisation was recalled. Kumari Surabhi Mudgalkar, Disciple of U. Govind Rao and Vajendra Ashrit, presented Hindustani vocal. She started withRaag Meru Behag, inVilambit ek taal, anddrutinteen taal. She followed it with a Marathi compositionE surano. She showed lot of promise.. The second concert was a melodious and traditional flute recital by  Venkatesh Godkhindi, , who started his concert withRaag Shyam Kalyan, inVilambit ek taalandBandishindrut teen taal. Sri. Dheeraj Premi, who sangRaag Purya Dhanasriinvilambit,ek Taalanddrutinteen taal,gave a neat performance and was accompanied on the harmonium by U. Govind Rao and Sunil Mudgalkar on the tabla.was accompanied on the harmonium by Surendra Bharati and on tabla by Anand Patwari.The festival concluded with a scintillating performance by Shubadha Marathe from Indore.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/05/stories/2007010500790300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.