(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDifferent approach
p3
sVnews
p4
VAnuradha Suresh Krishnamurthy's migration to mega serials on small screen luckily has not taken away from her musical prowess and proclivities. In her concert at Hamsadhwani she offered a sincere vocal recital with the support of Neyveli Radhakrishnan on the violin, B. Ganapathyraman on the mridangam, Adambakkam Shankar on the ghatam and N. Sundar on the morsing.Mostly popular numbers of the trinity and other composers featured in Anuradha's selection.&#8216;Ninnukkori,' the Mohanam varnam tailed by a kriti in Nattai on Lord Ganapathy gave a smart start to the concert. It was further pepped up with the Vasantha kriti &#8216;Seethamma Mayamma' (Tyagaraja) adding impetus with a substantial suite of niraval and swaras on the line &#8216;Dara Nija Bhagavathaga.'After a precise Bhairavi alapana Anuradha took up the Syama Sastri swarajati &#8216;Kamakshi Amba.' She loaded her languid rendition with maximum devotion and dedication. The swarajati itself offers varying hues of the raga's delicacy. The vocalist fully exploited them and further burnished them using her initiative in some places.Detailed styleThe Purvikalyani alapana showcased Anuradha's inclination to opt for a different approach to present a raga in her slightly zig zag style. The raga had the potential to withstand the rolling brigas and fast sancharas. Yet, had Anuradha put a few stops through internalising the raga with poignant karvais and better voice modulation, the output would have been different. Nonetheless, Dikshitar's &#8216;Meenakshi Memudam' was supplemented with detailed niraval and swaras at the popular line &#8216;Madurapuri Nilaye.'The vivacious musical expression of Anuradha cannot be faulted but the voice inflection goes askew in some places. The suddenly loud or startling imperceptible phrases or swaras can be easily eschewed with a little more concentration from the artist's side. Anuradha generously infused bhava to the rendition of the two main compositions which deserves special mention.&#8216;Kumaran Taal' in Yadukulakhambodi (Papanasam Sivan), &#8216;Raghuvamsa Sudha' (Patnam Subramania Iyer) in Kathanakuthuhalam and &#8216;Mokshamu Galada' (Tyagaraja) in Saramati were good interludes. The entire group of percussion was highly encouraging to the singer. Neyveli Radhakrishnan's answers to raga, niraval and swaras were competently conceived and delivered.Not a dull momentIt was gratifying to see Hamsadhwani's Youth Hostel venue packed for the veena concert of E. Gayathri; indeed, a rarity for instrumental music, nowadays. Second, the audio system was well balanced to underscore the volume of the veena without the dominance of the mridangam or the ghatam. The third, Gayathri made clear announcements about the compositions she played and it was appropriate as she offered items which are not too common in the concert circuit. The expectations of the rasikas were not belied and Gayathri, in her usual style, presented a recital of high calibre with some choicest melodies.On the whole, the concert showcased the meticulous planning and presentation of the artist; the piety-packed &#8216;Devibrova' in Chintamani by Syama Sastri, the radiant raga exposition of Madhyamavati and the swara surges for the Tyagaraja kriti &#8216;Adigi Sukhamulu' and the penultimate vibrant tillana of her father J. Aswathama in Chandrakauns created a great impression.Gayathri started with &#8216;Ninnukori', the Mohana varnam, and concluded with a Jayadeva Ashtapadi in ragamalika.Not a dull second in the entire concert where she put forth fast and slow kritis alternatively keeping the pace alive, her expertise evident all along.The main place was given to Khambodi and Syama Sastri's &#8216;Devi Nee Pada' with raga essay followed by ragamalika tanam (Mukhari, Poorvikalyani, Saramathi and Shanmukhapriya) with a brief niraval and comprehensive swaras. The kriti, in the typical Syama Sastri genre, had enchanting chittaswaram and sahityam.Gayathri's speciality is playing gamaka-laden phrases without a break, moving at a brisk pace, with dexterous touches in the right places to enhance the raga image. So the beauteous faces of Chakravaham (&#8216;Neranammithi' by Mysore Vasudevachar), Kumudakriya (&#8216;Ardhanareeswaram' by Dikshitar) and Kapi (&#8216;Meevalla Guna' by Tyagaraja) were brought out delicately.Sweet voiceHere's a request to Gayathri who has a sweet voice -- Why not sing a few finer parts of the compositions with the veena? It will allow the listener to enjoy your divine music more.Since the programmes of Hamsadhwani are dedicated to D.K. Pattammal, Gayathri recalled her acquaintances with the veteran.She said she always experienced the spiritual quality of Carnatic music in DKP's singing. She played &#8216;Panchashad Peeta Rupini' in Karnataka Devagandhari, a Dikshitar composition which she had learnt from DKP.Unobtrusive but valuable support was given by experts Trichur Narendran and E.M. Subramaniam on the mridangam and the ghatam. They also provided a riveting tani.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/02/stories/2010040251220200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/02/images/2010040251220202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRENDERED WITH DEVOTION: Anuradha Suresh Krishnamurthy and (below) E. Gayathri.
p14
ss.