(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn stalwarts' company
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAOver three hundred students from across the country participated in the 10th National School Intensive organised by the Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music & Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) at the Modern School in the Capital recently. The Intensive was especially designed to sensitise a carefully chosen group of students to an intense experience of our pluralistic culture through guru-shishya parampara in an ashram-like atmosphere.The participants got intense training during this week-long school intensive in varied subjects like yoga, meditation, kalamkari, khayal and dhrupad singing and classical dances like Kathak, Manipuri, Odissi to Purulia and Mayurbhanj Chhau Nritya. They had the rare privilege of learning dhrupad from Ustad Fariduddin Dagar, khayal from Ustad Abdul Rashid Khan, kalamkaari from J. Gurappa Shetty, Manipuri dance from Guru Singhjit Singh and Charusija Mathur, Odissi from Kumkum Lal, Kathak from Prerana Shrimali and attending lectures and interacting sessions with Ramgopal Bajaj (theatre), Mangalesh Dabral (literature), Dadi Padumjee (puppetry), Aparna Kaur (painting) and S.D. Sharma.Intensive itineraryApart from the classical music and dance performances, they also watched doll's theatre by Sudip Gupta and shabad kirtan by Bhai Manohar Singh and Bhai Gurinder Singh. Classic films likeSeven Samurai,Jalsa GharandThe Great Dictatorwere also screened during the week. Thus the children attending the Intensive stayed in enriching proximity of great masters in different areas of human endeavour.Dedicated to the memory of the late Ustad Bismillah Khan, the Intensive opened with the rudra veena recital of Ustad Asad Ali Khan. Before presenting the aalap, jod followed by a drupad composition in raga Bhoop, Khan Saheb introduced his rare instrument, the rudra veena. He elaborated upon its origin, structure and the way to hold and play it. He also explained the sampoorna, shadav and audav varieties of ragas before playing the audav (pentatonic) raga Bhoop of Kalyaan Thaat. Pandit Dal Chand Sharma accompanied him on pakhawaj.Ustad Abdul Rashid Khan from S.R.A. Kolkata gave an impressive vocal recital thereafter, with ragas like Bageshri and Bihag with vilambit (slow) and madhya laya (medium tempo) khayals of vintage quality. He also sang a trivat in raga Bhoopali. The overnight classical music performance on the concluding day opened with a mesmerising violin recital by N. Rajam. She started with a vilambit (slow) khayal set to vilambit Ektaal in raga Yaman, followed by the popular chhota khayal "Piya ki najaria jaadu bhari... " and a faster gat in drut Teentaal before concluding it with jhaala that maintained its musicality even in the fast speed. The melodious dadara in raga Desh "Hamse na bolo... " was followed by the vibrant laggi played on tabla by Anitya Kalyanpurkar.Pandit Ramashraya Jha, next, started his vocal recital with raga Bageshri accompanied on harmonium by Mahmood Dhaulpuri and on tabla by Mithilesh Kumar Jha. It was a rare treat to hear khayals in raga Gara rather than the thumri normally rendered in this raga after the main raga. He also obliged with a Maithili bhajan as a farmaish (request).Carnatic music was represented by the melodious flute recital of Shashank accompanied by Falgun on the mridangam. Ustad Bahauddin Dagar's rudra veena recital and Ashvini Bhide's vocal recital were the other attractions.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011201000200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.