(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCelebrating classical music
p3
sVnews
p4
VUnder the aegis of A.P State Department of Culture and G.V.R Government College of Music and Dance, Vijayawada, a three day music festival took place at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika on the grounds of the Music College. The festival was inaugurated by Malladi Suribabu and other honoured guests were T.S Ramachandra Rao and Golla Narayana Rao.Noted vocal duo Vishnubhatla sisters Saraswati and Krishnaveni gave a superb concert. The sisters began crisply with Natakuranji varnam following it with `Parameswara' in Nata. This was followed with a speedy rendition of Ninnadavalena in Kannada. Another major item was Raghuvara in Pantuvarali. The raga was completely explored by both and sparkling kalpana swaras followed the keertana. A highly pleasing tani was played by B.V.S Prasad. He was assisted well on ghatam by M. Haribabu. K. Lakshminarasamma, a staff member of the Music College gave the first concert on the second day. Lakshminarasamma sang Saveri varnam, Sidhi Vinayakam (Shanmukhapriya) and Vararagalaya (Chenchu kambhoji). Todi was taken up as the main item and Narasamma did ample justice to the keertana complementing it with fine raga and swaras.The second concert of the evening was a melodious veena recital by K.S.Govindarajan. Exhibiting neat and soft plucking technique which produced pleasing nadam, Govindarajan delighted the audience with Abhogi varnam, Vatapi in Hamsadhvani, and Ee vasudha in Sahana. Superb percussion support came from P.S.Phalgun (mridangam) and K.Vishnumuthy (ghatam) who presented a fine treat in the tani.On the third day, the programme began with a thrilling instrumental ensemble by V.B.V.Prasad (veena), Indrakeeladri Sarma (flute), G.Srinivasamurthy (violin), B.Sureshbabu (mridangam) and I.Anjaneya Sastri (ghatam). The group played several compositions with admirable co-ordination. The last concert of the three day fest was an excellent vocal by Manda Krishna Mohan. He started with Saranga varnam and followed with Mamava Sada Janani of Swathi Tirunal in Kanada, and Lalita Dasar's Pavanaguru in Hamsanandi. Another majestic piece in the concert was Mundu venuka iruprakkala thodai in Darbar. Other highlights in his concert were Sangeeta Samrajya Sancharini in Mohana Kalyani, Sarvam Bramha Mayam, a Sadasiva Bramhendra composition in Madhukauns, Krishna-nee-Begane Baro in Yamuna Kalyani and an Ashtapadi Radhika Krishna in Vasantika.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/01/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/01/14/stories/2011011450600200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/01/14/images/2011011450600201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusic with majesty Manda Krishna Mohan.
p14
ss.