(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCarrying the family legacy
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe late Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer belonged to the third generation of the disciples of Thyagaraja lineage. He established a great tradition that was carried on by his son Santanam till he suddenly died in a road accident. His son Srinivasan, now continues his father and grand dad's mission and thus the family's reputation walks ahead of Srinivsan. He was one of the principal vocalists to figure in the just concluded 12th Annual Cultural festival of Sri Chandrasekhararendra Sangeetha Educational Society, held at Keyes High School, Secunderabad. Srinivasan was in the company of his son M.S. Ganesh Viswanathan, who lent him vocal support, M.A Sunderesan on violin, Thanjavur Kumar on mridangam and A.S Krishnan on morsing.Srinivasan is blessed with a rich voice that he rightly exploits to project the Bhava of each lyric, and melody that accompanies, like his illustrious father. All the numbers of his repertoire being popular, the audience engrossed totally in the concert. He began with ata tala varnam Nera Nammithi in Kannada that opened gates for a sumptuous treat. The invocation, Abhista Varada in Hamsadhwani of Thyagaraja was steeped in emotion and produced unfailing effect of total devotion. This was followed by Raghuveera, a composition of Thygaraja in Husseni. He later he took up Hindolam for Manasuloni Marmamu of Thyagaraja for an essay and brought out the characteristics of the raga. It was elaborate and neat. The composition in it was well presented, giving life to the essence of kirtana and its devotional element. Then he switched over to another popular number of Thyagaraja, Ksheeramai in Mukhari. He then chose to sing Bhuvaneswareeya of Muthiah Bhagavatar in Mohana Kalyani. There was then a brief presentation of Vachaspati number Kanta Joodumi. The show piece of the concert was Ragam-Tanam- Pallavi done in most commanding raga Thodi. This gave a wholesome treat and remained principal attraction the concert. Essaying of the raga and then sailing through Tanam part maintaining the sweet melodic line was praiseworthy . Sensible support of Sundereswaran on his violin, also added to the general impact of the number, accentuating its beauty at every turn. One noticeable feature was Srinivasan's ability to keep perfect balance between Ragam, Tanam and Pallavi giving equal time to the presentation of each of these technical nuances.Neeraja Dala Nayana in Maund, Raghavendra in Sivaranjani, Govinda in Janasammodini and a ragamalika number Sri Chakra Raja and Tillana in Basantbahar were the numbers that were reeled out later in the end part. The concert concluded with Sambho Siva Sambho in Revati. This concert ended the 12th annual festival of the Chandrasekharendra Sangeetha Educational Society.The part played by Srinivasan's son Ganesh Viswanathan surely sets him well in the path of the family lineage and carries the legacy forward.As part of the festival, Thygaraja Aradhana was also held with a Pancharatna Goshti Ganam in which the artistes participating in the festival sang kirtanas along with others. Malladi Suribabu explained the substance of all the kriti. There were cascade of instruments that went along with it.G.S
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550320200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550320201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMaharajapuram Srinivasan
p14
ss.