(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor the after-glow
p3
sVnews
p4
VSabrang &#8212; the pseudonym of Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan &#8212; embodies  his distinctiveness. The daunting, rugged persona of the ustad shielded an extremely tender soul that found its aesthetic expression through his lilting lyrics and matchless music. A philanthropist to the core, he helped the needy generously, but when he needed help &#8212; it was missing.Aiming to prevent the same  from being repeated, Sabrang Music Trust in Kolkata pays warm tributes to the ustad through its  music festival for  a  cause. It raises funds to provide free medical aid and care to aged musicians through Matrisangha Janakalyan Ashram&#8217;s medical wing, ever since the Trust was revived in 2000 by vocalist Jayati Bagchi. Supported by Dr P. C. Mahtab, the Maharajkumar of Burdwan, industrialist Sanjay Budhia and many others, Bagchi  draws the best out of both the melodic and the materialistic worlds. The more  the Trust&#8217;s events focus on the present era to gratify the aficionados, the more the &#8212; now eclipsed &#8212; stars of the bygone era feel secured. This is a unique paradox!Sabrang Sangeet Sammelan honoured its annual date with Kala Mandir this year with a clutch of young Turks. Tabla maestro Swapan Chaudhuri and vocalist Manas Chakraborty represented the seniors. Chakraborty closed the night-long soiree with ragas Basant Mukhari and Bhairavi aided by Samar Saha&#8217;s equally seasoned tabla.Ambarish Das, the opening artiste, displayed perceptible similarity to Rashid Khan&#8217;s voice-throw while singing raga Bageshri. He has trained  under him and Mashkoor Ali Khan for some time. He could do better by incorporating some Agra elements in his singing of raga Barwa, since he was groomed by none else than the late Kumar Prasad Mukherji as well.A tabla-trio followed. Chaudhuri was flanked by his son Nilanjan and nephew Saikat. He encouraged the youngsters to play solo Teen tala theka variants, join in the dialogue-based duets and finally play rela together. Some traditional compositions were electrifying. Sanatan Goswami&#8217;s harmonium provided steady naghma throughout.Kaushiki Desikan sprang a pleasant surprise. Belonging to the Patiala gharana, she prefers to incorporate  the virtues of different schools. But on this special occasion her Malkauns adhered to three beautiful Sabrang compositions and style, replete with brilliant behlaawa  and tantalising taans.She displayed amazing skill and rectitude. Accompanists Abhijit Banerjee (tabla) and Rupashri Bhattacharya (harmonium) were extremely supportive.Sitar player Purbayan Chatterjee presented Shastriya Syndicate. Other participants were Veenai Jayanthi Kumaresh (Carnatic), flautist Rakesh Chaurasia, tabla virtuoso Shubhankar Banerjee and percussionist Pramath Kiran. While the melodic North-South blend was pleasing in raga Charukeshi, the Dhamar and Mishra Chapu talas did not gel at all. The fusion was better coordinated in faster Desh, tabla and percussion duet and concluding with Mishra Pahadi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/15/stories/2008021550410200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.