(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCelebrating legendary musicians
p3
sVnews
p4
VSaptaswara Cultural Organisation and Thyagaraya Ganasabha jointly organised a three-day music fest celebrating the 50th Jayanthi of Sri Ramananda Bharathi Swamy (Vaggeyakaratna Sri Harinagabhushanam of Machilipatnam) along with the 82nd birth anniversary of legendry musician Voleti Venkateswarlu.Conducted at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha, Chikkadapally, the first two days featured four concerts each by musicians singing 16 compositions of Harinagabhushanam.K. Sheshu Latha, a lecturer in P.S. Telugu University kicked off the festival by rendering four items. She began with a brief Saraswathi ragam followed by a detailed ragam of Hamsanandini with good feel forEnnadu Needayain Adi talam.Intha Jageelanayyain Kedaram was neatly sung and the main attraction was the detailed version of Bhairavi in which Latha brought out her experience.The second concert was by P.V. Seshaiah Sastry. He began withVinayakamin Saranga and then took Amritha Varshini for a detailed expansion forKarunalayude Rama.Chinta Bapavein Gowla was good in its expression. The final piece was Latangi, in which Sastry did well in his ragam forVe Ravayyawith good manodharma in his swaram.The second day began with a vocal recital by Vasgopinath Rao who started with Keeravani ragam and then took Bilahari followed by Saramathi, Vachaspathi and finally Malavi. Rao sang the compositions of Harinagabhushanam with bhakthi.The second concert was a fine vocal recital by Vardhini. She began with Suddha Danyasi and then sang Madhava Priya, a new ragam created by Harinagabhushanam and did well in it.On both the days, Kokkonda Subrahmanya Sarma on violin, Varanasi Kali Varaprasada Babu and Paravali Jaya Bhaskar lent decent support and richly contributed to the concerts.The third day was dedicated to Voleti Venkateswarlu.On the third day of the fest, Malladi Narayana Sharma, a noted vocalist from Vijayawada, along with his son Yamuna Raman, gave a vocal recital with O. Rajashekar on the violin and Kalyanaraman on the mridangam. Narayana Sharma began his recital with Thodi atatala varnam, a rare one these days. This was followed bySree Ganapathim Sevimpain Sowrastra. Panthuvarali,  was then neatly sung forShambho Mahadeva.Sogasu Chuda Taramain Kannada Gowla was a good rendition followed by a detailed ragam of Sankarabharanam.Here, Narayana showed his wide knowledge. He finally chose to sing a Navagraha keertana.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/09/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/09/04/stories/2009090450420300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/09/04/images/2009090450420302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.