(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe right touch
p3
sVnews
p4
VPandit Dal Chand Sharma is one of the finest exponents of pakhawaj as a soloist as well as an accompanying artiste. Trained under gurus like Pandit Totaram Sharma, Pandit Murlidhar Sharma and Pandit Purushottam Das of the Nathdwara tradition associated with the Nathdwara temple of Rajasthan in the authentic guru-shishya parampara; he has further enhanced his style with his intellectual approach towards the theory and practice of this ancient percussion instrument. It is always an enlightening and delightful experience to interact with him about the art of pakhawaj. At the outset, he seems quite concerned about the longevity of this rare percussion instrument since it has been confined to the accompaniment of just the Dhrupad and the Been traditions, which themselves have just a few practitioners left, but then he sounds confident about the versatility of this instrument. He is perhaps the first pakhawaj vidwan who has thought about emulating the nine rasas on this instrument as described by Bharata Muni in his &#8220;Natya Shastra.&#8221; It is a delight to listen to his dramatic padhant (reciting of mnemonics) with the delicate nuances of shringar or veer rasa. He is in fact equally brilliant in his padhant and bajant i.e., the art of reciting and playing respectively, when it comes to the depiction of different rasas.The reason behind this is his deep knowledge of sangeet (music) and sahitya (literature). Apart from the pakhawaj, he has also been trained in Dhrupad and Khayal singing and tabla . He has sufficient knowledge of Sanskrit and Hindi literature, especially the poetry of the Ashtachhaap poets of the Bhakti Yuga. He relates these to the bols of different parans and kavits of his gharana. He can differentiate between the bols of tabla and pakhawaj, hence takes care not to mix the two. A lot of importance is given to melody and tonal clarity in his gharana, notes the stalwart. Difficult part&#8220;Mastering the &#8216;thaap' is the first and the most difficult step in pakhawaj playing,&#8221; says the maestro. It is like mastering the &#8216;swara-sthaan' (singing the notes accurately) before proceeding to sing compositions in vocal music. The bols come effectively only after mastering the thaap. Nathadwara style, he explains, is different from other style like the Nana Panse, which is softer. It is more akin to Kudau Singh style which is forceful and energetic. The use of &#8216;dhin-nak' is an important and special feature of Nathdwara gharana. Pandit Dal Chand's individual addition to this style is the discrimination of using the softer and forceful effects according to the need of the particular rasa at that point. This makes his pakhawaj accompaniment much more desirable to match the rasa of the Dhrupad/Dhamar compositions being sung by the dhrupadia.The veteran has played solo concerts and accompanied the topmost Dhrupad singers and Rudra veena players at home and abroad. He is an equally renowned guru who has trained a number of Indian and foreign students of good repute. His tala-vadya kacheri and swara-laya samvaad with Hindustani, Carnatic and Western percussionists have earned him critical acclaim.While he seems truly satisfied with his sadhana, he vents his frustration that awards go elsewhere, just because, as he says, he doesn't know the art of manipulation.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/03/stories/2010120350330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/03/images/2010120350330201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSound scholar Pandit Dal Chand Sharma
p14
ss.