(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VScholarly recitals
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe final concert in the 16th anniversary of Sri Sadguru Sangeeta Sabha of Vijayawada was a superb vocal rendition by veteran singer from Chennai, T.M. Krishna. Krishna's singing was marked by scholarly insight, dynamic style of singing and a powerful voice.He started with Kedaragowla varnam followed by Rajuvedale in Todi. Krishna 's expansion of the fragrant melody of Todi, which beautifully established his niraval and the keertana, emerged as the highlight of the concert. Particularly the expansive and bhava rich niraval was the model in niraval singing.Showing expertiseThyagaraja Palayam, another major item in the concert was also sumptuous with appealing raga delineation and thrilling kalpana swaras. Krishna's main piece in the concert was Kamakshi in Varali, a Ghana raga which demands meticulous care and command in handling it. Krishna emerged in flying colours in handling it. He showed great expertise with soothing and appealing melody and proper modulation.R.K. Sriramkumar of Chennai and M.L.N. Raju, staff artiste of Akashvani, and M. Haribabu provided excellent support for Krishna on violin, mridangam and ghatam respectively. There were two smaller concerts in the festival during the last two days. The talented teenaged sisters Darbha Harini and Mriduravali sang pleasingly. With well-synchronised voices, the sisters produced melodious music rendering Sahana varnam composed by Chitra Venna exponent Ravikiran, Paraloka Bhayamu in Mandari, Sankari Neeve in Begada and as the main item, Aparadhamulanniyu in Latangi. Their manodharma aspects were of fine standard. Harini and Mriduravali got good support from P. Anjaneyulu (violin) and Ch. Ramakrishna (mridangam).Popuri Charumathi Pallavi, a talented young singer and violinist, presented a concert on the last day of the festival. Pallavi made a fine impression with her pleasing voice and good style. She began with Todi varnam and followed it with Gajananayutam in Chakravakam, Sogasujooda tarama in Kannadagowla. Her Kharaharapriya alapana preceding the kriti Prakkala Nilabadi emerged as a highlight of the concert. After the main item, Charumathi Pallavi melodiously sang Palukutenela Talli, an Annamacharya keertana tuned by vidwan Nedunuri. P. Anjaneyulu and Ch. Ramakrishna accompanied her well on violin and mridangam respectively.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/11/stories/2009121150210200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/11/images/2009121150210202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPopuri Charumathi Pallavi.
p14
ss.