(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConfluence at Boston
p3
sVnews
p4
V&#8220;It is unique  in the sense that we are the only organisation here who arranges a festival that features both Hindustani and Carnatic music,&#8221; said Pradeep Shukla, president of the organisation. The series began at the Museum of Fine Arts with Pt. Debashish Bhattacharya (Hindusthani guitar) and Sutapa Bhattacharya (vocal) with Subhashish Bhattacharya (tabla).It also saw Nataraj, a group that combined fine jazz musicians &#8212; Phil Scarff (sax), Mike Rivard (bass), Jerry Leake (tabla) and Bertram Lehman (drums) play with three guest virtuosi on Indian instruments &#8212; Ronu Majumdar and Shashank (bamboo flutes) and Parupali Phalgun (mridangam). That all the musicians were at home  and on the same wavelength  underlined the links between  East and West, United States and India.Raga, a documentary film on Pt. Ravi Shankar, which was underwritten by former Beatle George Harrison, was also shown.A jugalbandi on April 11 featured Shashank and Phalgun  and Ronu Majumdar (Hindusthani flute) with Ramdas Palsule (tabla) and ended with a Hindusthani vocal recital of Pt. Prabhakar Karekar.  The next day showcased a couple of local artists along with Pt. Madav Gudy. Later that day Abhishek Raghuram presented a vocal recital. Anirban Dasgupta offered the sweet and mellow music of the sarod leading to the high water mark of the Gundecha Brothers singing Dhrupad with Akhilesh Gundecha on the pakhawaj.There was also a concert of senior Hindusthani vocalist Dr. Prabha Atre and Sitar recital of father-son team of Pt. Partha and Puryaban Chatterjee.On the final day of the festival, a lecture demonstration by Vikras Telang on semi-classical genres in Hindusthani vocal music was held. Veena artiste Jayanthi Kumaresh, senior Carnatic vocalists O.S.Thiagarajan and Aruna Sairam and Hindustani musician Ustad Shujaat Khan presented concerts. Renowned flautist Hariprasad Chaurasia&#8217;s informal post-concert 40-minute encore came as a fitting finale to the five-day concert series.It is to be noted that many of the artists who come to perform at the festival also give master classes and teaching workshops at the Academy.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/02/stories/2008050251210300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.