(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA question of choice
p3
sVnews
p4
VJayanthi Rangarajan&#8217;s concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram was a tame event. Having undergone training under several masters, the style becomes transparently confused. The learning lacks direction, a task more than equal to common intellects; elegance and imagery are there, but they get inconsistent and unconnected. At moments it becomes exceedingly pleasing, but soon caves into labyrinths of mediocrity. It is generally observed that many contemporary artistes unaware of the presence of the accompanying artistes perform independently and the collective teamwork, if any, proves daunting.  Jayanthi has a reasonably good voice and registers well in all octaves. She can bring out fast phrases effortlessly, but thealapanalacks blueprint; running up and down the scale is a juvenile effort; even so in the discipline ofswarakalpana; it is a wild and pointless progression. That she has sufficient classicism in her art is evident as revealed in a couple of items. Take for instance the raga Kanthamani (61 mela); the rare raga has very little intrinsic grace; but to make a major item of it with elaboratealapanais estimable.Palinthuvoindesadiof Tyagaraja was the accompanying song.Thevishranthiand spirituality were striking in her presentation ofnannuvidachi kadalakurainritigowla; the pace was ideal; only it lacked the needed embellishment of the accompanying mridangam. Theneravalpart in the concert was seriously lacking.Jayanthi commenced her concert withbegada varnamand followed it up withpranamamyahumingowla.It was just the time to build up the tempo, when she unfortunately chose the pedestrian pieceranganayakaminnayaki; thus she went back two steps.Panthuvaraliwas well chosen but it was the wrong place and justice was not done.If this had precedednayaki, the scenario would have been very illuminating.Alapanaforpantuvarali, neravaland extensiveswarakalpanawith a variety ofjathiswould have proved significant. She innocently missed it. She chosebhairavifor comprehensive handling and did a good job of it.Thekrithis, ikanannu, a favourite song of Pattammal was neatly presented; theneravalandswarakalpna, atbhavasagaramanduwere attractiveManorama, former principal of Music College accompanied Jayanthi on the violin and added grace and colour to the concert. The mridangam accompaniment by Kapa Srinivasa Rao needs comment. Most of the young mridangam players, not to mention Kapa Rao need to learn the skill of following thekrithisand not thethalaalone, and a majority of them fall to humiliation when they face a slow-moving item, where in fact, it is the decoration of rhythm that adds to the beauty of the concert. Kapa&#8217;s accompaniment for the song inrithigowlawas intimidating.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/26/stories/2008092650140300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/26/images/2008092650140301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPleasing voiceJayanthi Rangarajan.
p14
ss.