(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMehfil with a difference
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPSince the usual venue at the Sri Sathya Sai International Centre in Lodi Colony area was not available this time, the November 2006 VSK Mehfil Baithak concert featuring a Hindustani classical vocal recital by Indore's Kalpana Zokarkar was held at the farmhouse of  Sanjay Bhaskar in Delhi's southern most region of Chattarpur. It was an indoor concert with a difference. First of all, it was a daytime concert instead of the usual evening performance. Secondly, it was not held in the Capitol's well-known auditoriums but at a farmhouse.Indore-born Kalpana Zokarkar was born into a family steeped in classical music. Her father and guru, Krishnarao (Mamasaheb) Majumdar, was one of the senior most disciples of the legendary Ustad Rajjab Ali Khan of Dewas, the court musician of the former princely state in Madhya Pradesh. Having imbibed music since her childhood, Kalpana went on to extend the boundaries of her musical repertoire through the guidance of Sushila Pohankar and V.U. Rajurkar, both renowned scholars of the Gwalior gharana.Kalpana has over the years emerged as one of the most melodious and enchanting vocalists of the country and is being increasingly heard at all major musical occasions. Her intense and vibrant involvement in music &#151;  khayal, thumri, tappa, tarana, or whatever &#151;  compellingly evokes a sense of joy and elation among the rasikas. And there is never a dull moment.Daytime ragasThe daytime concert that continued till the late afternoon provided the rare opportunity of enjoying a good number of ragas that one rarely hears since most of the concerts are held in the evenings. Thanks to Kalpana's total involvement of her musical instincts, one was delighted to listen to her soulful renderings in the rarely heard melody of the pentatonic raga Bhopal Todi. The opening khayal set to the 12-beat slow Ek tala "Mangal aayo dar tore" was an enchanting curtain-raiser to the concert. The singer gave a commendable elaboration with soulful alap-badhat and later followed it up with well permuted sargams and scores of well-knit taan patterns. The fast Teen tala piece "Kaan bhankaayo" was redolent with many a colourful variation.Her next rendering in the noon-time raga Shuddha Sarang with a Teen tala composition of Shah Sadarang "Mohey Kana bisari" though tunefully sung, sounded a bit too early for that time of the day. She would have done well by clubbing it with another noontime raga, Brindavan Sarang "Morey man bisaro pyare".The two compositions in the late morning raga Jaunpuri, "Hoon to jaiye" set to slow Teen tala and "Man harawaa mori re" in drut Teen tala, were by far the most appealing renderings. The melodic strains released by Kalpana were indeed soothing to the ears. The raga's colourful folds were exposed with noble effect.The brief rendering in the morning raga Bhairavi "Rama jiyaa naahin laage" pleased only in parts. She however gave a befitting finale to her  mammoth concert with charmingly sung compositions in the late afternoon raga Bhimpalasi, "Ab to badi ber bhayee" set to slow Ek tala and "Dholan mere ghar aaye" in drut Teen tala. After these two songs Kalpana rendered a soulful khayal in the early evening raga Multani "Begi aavo saaiyaan" which she embellished with quite a few hauntingly improvised variations. Another piece in Bhairavi could have better been avoided as a finale to her otherwise brilliantly rendered khayal compositions at this particular VSK Baithak held in a calm and soothing environment.Kudos to accompanists Suyog Kondulkar on the harmonium and Bharat Kamath on the tabla, who added further charm to Kalpana's  recital, besides providing her with further impetus.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120801620200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120801620201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKalpana Zokarkar
p14
ss.