(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhen melody reigned supreme
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. JAYAKUMARVocalist Vechur Sanker treated the gathering to a rich repertoire of Carnatic music on the third day of the Theerthapada Sangeetotsavam 2006.The nephew of renowned musician Vechur Harihara Subramania Iyer, he opened his recital with a varnam composed by his guru P.R. Kumarakerala Varma. The kriti `Devi Mookambike' was in Hamsavinodini set to Adi talam.With an elaborateragavistaram,Vechur Sanker brought forth the features of Kalyani. The Syama Sastry kriti `Thalli ninnu' was set to Misra chappu talam. Quite appropriately, he sang the neraval at `Harinanda,' followed by smoothswarapassages. Manjula Rajesh on the violin lend able support. The thaniavarthanam which lasted for more than 15 minutes was marked by the deftness with which Uduppi Sreekanth played on the ganjira following the lead provided by mridangist Mavelikara Rajesh.On the fourth day, Alleppey Sreekumar  took the stage. An interesting feature was his emphasis on delineation of the ragas peppered with brigas.He started off with a varnam `Karunimpa' in Sahana set to Adi talam. The highpoint of his concert was a Ragam Tanam Pallavi in Kambhoji set to Adi talam. The accompaniments were provided by Cherthala Jayadevan on the mridangam, Uduppi Sreekanth on the ganjira and Kadanad V.K. Haridas on the violin.Scholarly renditionOn the fifth day,  Varkala C.S. Jayaram gave a Carnatic vocal recital that stood apart for its rich quality and scholarly rendition.C.S. Jayaram commenced his concert with a varnam `Saami ninne' in Sree ragam set to Adi talam.The central piece of the concert was the kriti `Shabareeswaram bhavaye' in raga Kharaharapriya. A composition of Thulaseevanam, it was set to Adi talam. It was preceded by an elaborateragavistaram.  The thaniavarthanam saw masterly strokes on the mridangam by G.Babu, and H. Sivaramakrishnan on the ghatam. Violin support was provided by Muttara Raveendran. C.S. Jayaram was supported by his disciple Sridev.Shreyas Narayanan's full-throated style of singing made the Carnatic vocal recital on the sixth day a lively affair.The main kriti of the evening was `Janani mamava' in Bhairavi. It was set to Misra chappu talam. Shreyas Narayanan elaborated the raga of the Swati Tirunal composition. The rendering of the kriti was followed by thaniavarthanam with Kadanad V.K. Gopi on the mridangam and H. Sivaramakrishnan on the ghatam. Venkitachalam on the violin did a commendable job.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042800220200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042800220204.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VShreyas Narayanan.
p14
ss.