(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn a melodious note
p3
sVnews
p4
VP.SURYA RAOA few junior concerts, an impressive group singing and a melodious violin trio  -   that is what the second part of the five-day music festival organised by Gayaka Sarwabhowma Sangeeta Parishat was all about.Sishla Bharathi, a meritorious young singer and a disciple of Modumudi Sudhakar, impressed with her main itemDorakuna Ituvanti Sevaof Thayagaraja inBilahari. Theragaelaboration andswarasspoke well of her talent.Bharathi was well supported by R. Subramanyam on violin and I. Anjaneya Sastri on mridangam.Bhakthi Gana Sudha Nivedana,was the next programme, conducted by  N. Ch. Butchiahcharyulu, which included devotional songs of differentvaggeyakaras. The programme was well received by the audience. The singers, led by Butchiahcharyulu, were Pranav Kausik, Sasank Krishna, K. Ranganayaki, Sandhya, G. Lakshmi Srihari, Hamsageetika, Aparna, Santisri and Girija Rama. Good instrumental support came from Murali Mohan, Subramanya Raju, M. Lokesh (violin), Kumar Babu (flute), P. V. N. Sirishna (veena), K. Sai Giridhar (mridangam) and V. Surya Prakash (tabla). The well-coordinated group sang compositions of Thyagaraja, Ramadas, Narayana Teertha, Annamacharya, Sadasiva Bramhendra, Purandaradasa and N. Ch. Krishnamacharyulu. A few verses from Dasaradhi Satakam also found place in the group singing.The morning of the last day,   saw M. Vasavi Durga, L. Meenakshi and Kasturi Gopala Rao giving junior concerts. The final one in the morning was a spectacular vocal concert by P. Janaki of Guntur, an experienced singer. AfterEnta Bhagyamu(Saranga) andRamabhirama, Janaki took upSankarabharanamfor the main item and did ample justice to thekeertana,Thyagaraja'sEnduku Peddala,by adorning it with imaginativeragaessay and fineswaras.  P. Nandakumar, K. Sai Giridhar and I. Anjaneya Sastri gave good support on violin, mridangam and ghatam respectively.The concluding concert was a melodious violin trio by P. Nandakumar, G. Satish Babu and Chandrakanta  -   all disciples of Vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswamy. The trio played popular items likeVatapi(Hamsadhvani),Endaro Mahanubhavulu,the Pancharatnakeertana,Sobhillu SaptaswarainJaganmohiniand Dr. Balamurali'sthillanainBrindavana Saranga. P. S. Phalgun (mridangam) and Sai Giridhar (tabla) provided good percussion support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122200300200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122200300201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIMPRESSIVE Vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswamy's disciples provided a musical feast to the audience.
p14
ss.