(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious evening
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a memorable evening when R. Suryaprakash, a scion of the tradition of Madurai Mani Iyer, gave a vocal concert at M.D.R. Hall, Chembai Memorial Music College, Palakkad, under the aegis of The Palakkad Fine Arts Society. The virtuosity and aesthetics in his presentation along with his impressive voice gifted the listeners a transcendental experience.This  disciple of T.V. Sankaranarayanan (T.V.S.) has met the expectations of connoisseurs of music by  imbibing the techniques of the Madurai Mani Iyer bani, and  the style of his guru T.V.S., thus  creating a niche for himself.Suryaprakash flagged off the concert with the Ata tala varnam `Viriboni' of Pachimariam Adiyappayya in Bhairavi. He was accompanied by Avaneeswaram S.R. Vinu on the violin, Jayakrishnan on the mridangam and Kovai Suresh on the ghatam.`Sadanada Thandavam,' a composition of Achuthadasar in Bahudari, was followed by a brief but exquisite rendition of Shanmukhapriya for `Marivere Dikkevarayya Rama' of Pattanam Subrahmanya Iyer. Next came `Sarasamukhi Sakala Bhagyathe' of Muthayya Bhagavathar in Gowdamallar, set to Roopaka tala.Cascading kalpanaswaraA brisk number `Manavyalakim,' composed by  Tyagaraja, was laced with cascading kalpanaswara, woven into Sarvalaghu, Jhandha and Dhattu patterns.The ragalapana of Kamboji was replete with ragabhava and pepped with brigas. Music lovers were  delighted to hear the famous `Kanakkankodi vendum' of Papanasam Sivan.Impeccable manodharmaThe impeccable manodharma and cohesive expressiveness of the vocalist were evident in the niraval at the anupallavi `Manikkam vairam muthal.' The thaniavarthanam saw the rhythmic excellence of Jayakrishnan and Kovai Suresh.An erudite ragam, thanam and pallavi amazingly blending two ragas  -   Saranga (a raga derived from the 65th melakartha raga Kalyani) and Vrindavanasaranga (a janyaraga of the 22nd melakartha raga Kharaharapriya). That was the main item of the concert.A rare and notable feature of the concert was a ragamalika comprising 32 ragas, which narrated the names and famous songs in the raga and also expressed the full bhava of the raga. It was a composition of the vocalist himself and it showcased his incredible repertoire.Suryaprakash wound up the concert with a ragamalika sloka on Shanmukha and the kriti `Kanthan karunai puriyum Vadivel' and mangalam there on.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032300840300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032300840301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAESTHETIC PERFORMANCE: R. Suryaprakash is a disciple of T.V. Sankaranarayanan.
p14
ss.