(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA unique convergence
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe three-day Sangeetha Nrithyotsava under the aegis of Vamshi Academy of Music Trust and Rotary Club (West) concluded with an interesting programme where two art forms converged enthralling the audience. Noted father-son-flautist-duo B.K. Anantaram and Amit A. Nadig were at the helm of their talent and brilliance. Picking up the cues from them famous artist B.K.S. Varma created captivating images using thread and black and yellow and red colours. The duo rendered "Vatapi ganapathim" (Hamsadhwani) with trikaala swaras. Varma drew a dancing Ganesha in tribhanga holding flute and chitike in his two hands &#151;  a unique imagination indeed. "Endaro Mahanubhavulu" in music was supported by a devotionally and musically engrossed Thyagaraja's attractive portrait. Kanakadasa's "Baaro Krishnaiah" was reflected on the canvass with mischievous Krishna playing with butter. The rendition of "Nagumomu" (Abheri), "Anandaamrithaakarshini" (Amrithavarshini) and "Tungateera viharam" was supported with a picture of Sri Raghavendraswamy in a pensive mood. The flautists were splendidly supported by B. Lakshmi (violin), N. Vasudeva (mridanga), Dayananda Mohite (ghata) and T.M. Karthik (rhythm pad).An innovative flute recital by Ashwini K. Varagur featuring the depiction ofVishwaroopaon the basis of Raghupathi Bhat's Ganjifa paintings.Ashwini had seen the Vishwaroopa as the extension of the five basic elements (panchabhootaas) With Jyotsna Manjunath (violin), Ranjani Venkatesh (mridanga), Bhagyalakshmi (morsing) and Karthik Mani (rhythms), providing varied and complementary sound effects and supported by slides of the Vishwaroopa paintings. Ashwini began with "Tulasidala" (Mayamalavagowla).She was applauded for  Vasanthi (for Akasha tatwa), Vitapi (Bhoo), Hamsanandi (Agni), Tilang (Jala) and Dwijavanthi (Vaayu).The flautists cleverly and skilfully used flutes of different sizes to produce a rainbow of bhavas.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/19/stories/2007011901910300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/19/images/2007011901910301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSPARKLING DUOAnantaram and Amit were brilliant
p14
ss.