(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUtterly delightful
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHAt a time when either the Carnatic music festivals organised in Delhi, per se, or their spread in terms of number of days of music concerts, have been reduced, Vadakku Vaasal, a monthly magazine published in Delhi, came forward and organised a Spring Music Festival recently, spread over three days. At the outset, the efforts of this organisation deserve appreciation.Sudha Raghunathan, who was featured on the last day of the festival, and whose recital was dominated by Tamil compositions, steered every phase of her concert to a delightful experience. Sudha's opening piece, "Karunai seivaai gaja raja mukha", a composition of Papanasam Sivan in the raga Hamsvadani was marked with crisp kalpana swaras, giving her a brisk start. Another composition of Sivan, "Idadu padam tookki aadum" in the raga Khamas, underwent fine treatment. Tyagaraja's pancha ratna "Yentharo mahanubhavulu", in the raga Shri, was emotive.Fine delineationNilakantan Sivan's composition, "Ananda nadamaduvar Tillai', in the raga Poorvikalyani, was marked with a detailed and fine delineation of the raga, niraval of the phrase, "Paadhimadi joti palir yena paadha silamboli galir yena", and lively swaraprasthara. While presenting Muttuswami Dikshitar's "Annapoorne Vishalakshi", in the raga Sama, Sudha brought out the emotional content of the raga as well as the sahitya to the fore. As the main number of her recital, she presented yet another composition of Papanasam Sivan, "Sharavanabhava Guhane", in the raga Madhyamavati. She presented an excellent alap of the raga, delineating it in stages and bringing the nuances to the fore. The excellent portrayal of the sahitya bhava, creative handling of the niraval of the phrase "Annaiyodu thandhai ne vazhvinil anaithum ne yendru nambinene" and the swaraprastara rich in creativity were the other hallmarks. Suresh Babu on the violin, Sairam on the mridangam and R. Raman on the morshunkh provided good support.A book titled "Jugalbandhi", a collection of short stories based on music, was also released during this festival. Other musicians who performed in this festival were Seerkazhi Siva Chidambaram, Sriram Parasuram, Anuradha Sriram and young S. Aishwarya Lakshmi.Though this maiden attempt of organising the music festival by a publishing entity is laudable, the mini functions with endless speeches and honouring of the Chief Guests before each concert could have been avoided or kept to the bare minimum. It is hoped that in the coming years action (read music) would be louder than words.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/21/stories/2006042101150200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/21/images/2006042101150201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPURE MELODY It was vintage Sudha Raghunathan at the Spring Music Festival  Photo: R. SHIVAJIRAO
p14
ss.