(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA young whiz in concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARBesides his astonishing ability, it was more a novelty of sorts that drove the packed Kalasagaram audience to harebrained euphoria and arousing infatuation on the occasion of the vocal concert of Master Anantharaman, who is just 14 years of age.To do what he did in last week's performance, it is doubtless that one needs intuitive talent and a great gift, but the  unabashed warning is, "early bloom, early fade."There have been several instances where such kids and some even more talented have vanished like last year's clouds, as early as  their  25th birthday, more so because, where there should be praise, there is unabashed pampering.On the day, for instance, the innocent audience sent raptures of applause and exhilaration at whatever the kid did-good or  not so good-and there was nothing but smile, emotion and even tears. The dynamic compulsion behind this is the singular phenomena. It may not be out of place to mention that such attitude on the part of the audience sometime sends out wrong signals to the young artiste and may even drive him to impudence and insolence.This is only a caveat. Even more tragic is that in our world of art, a kid of such talent is passionately claimed by some leading singers as their disciple, as indeed it is the case with Anantharaman. It is very important that the artiste is not overexposed and it is the duty of every music lover to shelter this whiz kid.Anatharaman has an immaculate sense ofsruti; it is captivating and resilient when he stays atthara shadjabut it is as frail when he reaches themandra sthayi. This is a natural process of progress and he should be able to project it well soon. He has great poise and can daringly take up tough topics. While he renders thekrithisprecisely, hismanodharam sangitha, thealapanain particular, needs proper design and approach in the sense that each raga has to be planned on its own merits; the yardstick cannot be uniformly same.But the work he did on the occasion was nevertheless splendid although in limitation. Even so, his attempts in swarakalpana need discreet perspective, which can easily be won by listening to past masters and honing one's own skill.Truly objectiveThe concert had a variety of songs and an array ofthalas, which made the episode objective. Starting with avarnaminKaanada, the artiste moved on toSri MahaganapthiinGowla, which had its share ofSwarakalpanafollowed up be a rarekrithi,Manamukavalnnuof Muthiah Bhagavathar.The song was rendered with all feeling.Hindola (Neerajakshiof Dikshithar) had a poor portrayal of thealapana.The song has more attractivesangathis, which were missed on the occasion.Sarangathereafter was an ideal choice bringing out the marked difference in the melody.Varaliwas brisk and the legendarykrithi,Eti janmamidirawas presented in the rightKalapramanamand rightly conveyed the composer's objective.Thyagaraju who accompanied on the violin, is relatively older and is that much more mature; he cautiously reverted to sobriety whenever it was missing.Burra Sriram is a frequent player on the mridangam in Kalasagaram programmes and has impressed to be the right accompanist for young artistes.He does not interfere but lends a great helping hand in the overall construction and the format of the concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/08/stories/2006090801940300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/08/images/2006090801940301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN CONCERT Anantharaman exudes great poise.
p14
ss.