(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCompelling music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Founder's Day celebrations as part of the Ramanavami concerts at the Fort Highschool had felicitation to veteran artistes like H.P.Ramachar, Guruvayuru Dorai, S. Seshagiri Rao, Tirumalai Srinivasacharya, popular MLC R.V.Devaraj and the institution, Bangalore Gayana Samaja.This was followed by a brilliant, melodious and thrilling chitraveena recital by N. Ravikiran. In the delightful sancharas spread over "Sharanu Siddhi Vinayaka" (raga Sowrashtra with swaras) followed by "Manaviyalaginchara" (Nalinakanthi: the dialogue between him and the mridangist Umayalapuram Shivaraman at "Ghanudaina" was enthralling) and "Durmargachara" (Ranjani) had a soaring inspiration, sense of balance, and a compelling technique that moved in perfect fusion. It was in the raga, tana and pallavi, which was exclusively designed and presented for the occasion, that he revealed himself to be an adept in deploying his talent to create effect. The pallavi entitled "Saptaswara pallavi" was strung in seven ragas Poorna Shadja, Rishabhapriya, Devagandhari, Lalithapanchama, Dhaivathangi, Nishadha (or Neetimathi). The beauty of the first four ragas was captured in short, succinct, and comprehensive outlines. The latter three ragas were sketched in the form of tana. The pallavi line was "Saptaswaramula upajimpave manasa shadjadi" (in Poornashadja).  Dr. Mysore Manjunath was quick to take up Ravikiran's line of thinking in the structure his sancharas. So were Umayalapuram Shivaraman and N.Amrith on mridanga and khanjira respectively in creating arithmetical combinations. Their laya vinyasa abounded with technical details.Worthy experienceWith her fine sense of cutcheri craft and admirable expertise and equipment, seasoned singer Padma Adiga made it a worthwhile experience. The long wait for the lovers of music was really rewarding. Padma supported by R. Raghuram (violin), N.Vasudev (mridanga) and Betta Venkatesh (morsing), restored the mood of the audience with her very first number "Vatapi", with a well laid-out swaraprastara. The concert was packed with short and sweet overtures of the ragas and crisp krithis. Vasantha ("Ramachandram Bhavayami"), Hamsanada ("Banturiti"), Madhuvanthi ("Sharanembe vani"), "Ksheerabdhi Kannike" (ragamalika) and others made for rich fare from Padma Adiga.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/13/stories/2005051303310300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/13/images/2005051303310301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINSPIRED Ravikiran's Nalinakanthi piece stood out
p14
ss.