(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTuned to fusion
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. JAYAKUMARThe newly formed fusion music group `Trisakthi' made its debut stage concert in the capital. The group impressed the audience with their vibrant combination of the three forms of classical music  -   Carnatic, Hindustani and Western.For their debut stage performance, Attukal Balasubramaniam led the nine instrumentalists on stage on the violin.The programme conceived by music director M. Jayachandran and assisted by singer Kavalam Srikumar, started off with the musicians playing the Natta raga, its equivalent being Jog in Hindustani followed by Jazz. The three music forms merged into one bringing forth the very essence of TrisakthiNext to come was the playing of the nursery rhyme `Twinkle twinkle little star.' It was a musical journey through the different forms of music  -   from the Western scale to the Carnatic Sankarabharanam with glimpses of Vivaldi's Four Seasons proving that music is a uniting force irrespective of region, country or religion.Musical ensembleThe piece began with Balasubramaniam caressing his violin softly with the bow. Jijith picked this up on the keyboard. The rhyme in Sankarabharanam was repeated by U. P. Raju on the mandolin, Soundarajan on the veena, and Alappuzha Karuna Moorthy on the thavil. The percussionists provided the talas with Joboy Master on the drums, Palghat Mahesh on the mridangom, Anilkumar on the ghatom and Jayakumar on the tabla.Kavalam Srikumar's rendering of `Syamala meenakshi' was, however, drowned in the pulsating fusion music. Filmy tunes of `En veettil,' `Poove poove,' and 'Love Story' were played. The concluding item of the evening was a garland of ragas in the form of a ragamalika. It began with the Hindustani raag Marwah as an introductory bit. The raag is similar to the Carnatic raga Hamsanandi. The other ragas interspersed were Charukeshi, Dharmavathi and Sivarenjini. Thethaniavarthanamplayed by the percussionists was a feast to the ears.The grand finale was marked by the merging of the three ragas Marwah, Charukeshi and Sivarenjini. Tunes based on the ragas from popular films  -   `Akale akale neelakasham' and `Entren nenchil nee than'  -   were played.In future, the group intends to include classical dance forms too, said M. Jayachandran. The violinist Attukal Balasubramaniam said that the aim was to provide a different feel by imparting the richness of the forms of classical music to the listeners.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041401480200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041401480201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFUSION MAGIC: The group Trishakthi enthralled audience with its fusion music.
p14
ss.