(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGNB remembered
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Nandrudayan Sangeetha Samajam celebrated the birth centenary of the legendary G.N. Balasubramaniam, popularly known as GNB, along with its annual Vinayakar Chathurti Music Festival from September 12 to 25.The concerts were held at the Nandrudayan Vinayakar Temple in Tiruchi.An interesting aspect was that each day, a song sung by GNB was played before the concert began. The 14-day festival also saw the main artists singing at least one composition of GNB.The performersThe musicians who took part in the festival were Sivakumar (veena), K. Bhaskaran (flute), T.M. Krishna, T. V. Sankaranarayanan, O.S. Thyagarajan, Pattabirama Pandit, T. V. Ramprasadh, T. V. Ramanujacharyalu, Kunnakkudi M. Balamuralikrishna, Thoppur Sairam, Kasthuri Rangan, Renganatha Sharma, and Trichur V. Ramachandran.There was also a violin duet by M. Chandrasekaran and G. Bharathi.On the concluding day, a disciple of GNB, N. Gopalsamy, director, Dalmia Cements (Bharath) Limited, spoke about the legend.He said the late GNB was born in Gudalur village in the erstwhile Thanjavur district. He pointed out that Gudalur was very near to the villages where great masters in Carnatic music such as Rajaratnam Pillai, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and Mudicondan Venkatrama Iyer were born.In this context, according to him, GNB was brought up in an atmosphere of classical music. He added that even though GNB strayed into acting in films, he returned to the musical main stream and continued in the field till his death in May 1965.The Finance Controller of TSRM, A. Venkatraman, while praising GNB, said that the legend was not only a performing artist but also a great composer. He also said that GNB encouraged his disciples to popularise his compositions.Gate collectionsMr. Venkatraman stated that during the height of GNB's performing career, there were huge gate collections and on many occasions, the &#8216;House Full' board were put up at the concert venue.To satisfy the disappointed listeners there would be a repeat performance the next day. According to Venkatraman, some of his L. P. records were hits in those days and no one could outclass him in the way he rendered certain songs.As a disciple of GNB, V. Ramachandran, extolled the virtues of his guru, who had trained musicians such as M.L. Vasanthakumari, T.S. Balasubramaniam, Radha and Jayalakshmi, S. Kalyanaraman and Someswarababu.He added that GNB taught his disciples the nuances in Carnatic music expecting perfection in their performances.He said that GNB also encouraged young accompanists.N. Sekar, honorary secretary of Rasika Ranjana Sabha, proposed a vote of thanks.The function was followed by a vocal recital by V. Ramachandran to the accompaniment of Sherthalai Sivakumar on the violin, Thanjavur Ramadas on the mridangam and A.S. Shankar on the ghatam.V. Ramachandran rendered songs in the ragas Hindolam, Hamsadhwani, Panthuvarali, Madhyamavathi, Senchu Kambodhi, Bahudhari and Thodi.He sang GNB's favourite ragamalika &#8216;Dhikku Theriyadha Kaattil.' The raga elaborations of Panthuvarali, Madhyamavathi and Thodi were scintillating and thani avarthanam after the main raga Thodi was equally excellent.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/22/stories/2010102250750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/22/images/2010102250750301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVETERANS' voices:(From top left, clockwise) O.S. Thyagarajan, T.V. Sankaranarayanan, T.M. Krishna and
p14
ss.