(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMark of a seasoned singer
p3
sVnews
p4
VJAYARAMAN VInstead of focussing on newly coined ragas and compositions, an aspiring vocalist should first learn how to handle well-known ragas and kritis. Such was the advice of the greatvidwanMudikondan Venkatarama Iyer.Sreevalsan J. Menon is one of the young vocalists who rely on popular ragas and compositions in making his concerts pleasing to the ear. Hisalapanasare not tainted by incongruous flourishes and the compositions are  sung with a clean diction and appropriately fashioned niraval andswaras.His vocal concert at Kalikkotta Palace in Thripunithura, under the aegis of Sree Poornathrayeesa Sangeetha Sabha, had the varnam in Mohanam (`Ninnukori') by Ramanad Srinivasa Iyengar, to start with. Saurashtram found its expression through the stately `Ninnu Joochi' by Pattanam Subrahmania Iyer.Saraswathi is a raga that has been found to be pliable by reputed musicians but slippery in the hands of the young. Sreevalsan cruised through it  with the composition `Saraswathim Namosthuthe' by N.S. Ramachanran. The movement of the raga in it was augmented by a crisp phase ofswarasby giving full width to his tenor..There are only a couple of compositions in raga Pushpalathika, of the Khaharapriya fold, which was known as Kaalindi in ancient days. `Ikkanainaa' by Thruppathy Narayanaswami, which has  a fastchittaswarasequence, helped enliven the concert.Begada ensued, draped in  phrases that could emanate from only a matured musician. `Nadopasanache,' in which Tyagaraja emphasises the significance of pureswara, ragaandlaya, was appreciated by therasikas.Rhythm and musicSwarajathi by Syama Sasthri  offered an opportunity to the listener to ponder over the unrivalled rhythmic and musical sense of his.  It requires a certain amount of finesse on the part of the vocalist to present it faultlessly.Sreevalasan acquitted himself well with the Bhairavi Swarajathi (`Kamakshi Anudinamu' in Chaapu) with its commencing notes on the ascending order of the pitch, illustrating the `Aarohana Sthayi Padhathi' of raga alapana.Anoop put up an excellent show on the violin, anticipating every move by the vocalist, and translating it into worthy passages.Alappuzha Chandrasekhran, adopting the `sarvalaghu mode' on the mridangam, adapted himself quite well to the style of the vocalist. Udippi Sreedhar played the ghatom.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060200310300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.