(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRichly gifted
p3
sVnews
p4
VChandrasekharendra Educational Society has the unique knack of finding talented but less exposed artistes in the field of Carnatic music. The duel vocal concert of Vishnubhatla sisters conducted by the Society last week was one such.Hailing from Vijayawada, the sisters have proved to be richly gifted. Their voice is pleasing and blends with each other.  Their energy is harnessed to reason, wedded to order and is in good taste.If their youthful exuberance is commendable, it directly needs sagacious channelling. It is not their failure but the atrocious addiction to populist ideas of speed, exhibitionism, tasteless acquisitiveness for applause has overpowered the chastity of classicism and, the sisters are no exception.Yet another deprecating feature is thatmanodharma sangithamhas becomekalpitha sangitham. For instance, it was sad to watch them reading out from slips of papers thekoruvaiuswritten down, while playingswarakalpana. This certainly is notmanodharma sangitham.In their discipline ofalapanatoo, unbridled speed resulted with repetition ofsangathisbeyond prudence.The concert started well withsaveri varnam, rendered in differentnadaisand later switched on tovathapi ganapthim bajeinHamsadwani. The event was run of the mill with predictablesangathisand conventionalswarakalpana. They struck gold, as it were, in rendering thekrithi,Amba NilambariinNilambari. It was decently presented and honourably terminated. It was in the itemgangadharainPoorviukalyanithat excellence and mediocrity played hide and seek. If thealapanawas mediocre, thekrithiwas well presented. If thevyavaharamwas good, theswarakalpanawas uneven and even annoyingly dreary.The feeling for form, precision and clarity for proportion and order &#151;  these are what the sisters need. They do have it in large measure; they need only to learn how to orient them. Durga Bhavai on the violin is a talented artist but in toeing the line of the main artistes, has not much choice. BVS Prasad on mridangam added thrill by his contribution in the form ofsarwalaghu; it is however an easy matter to accompany for amadhyamakala(faster) format, as indeed it was on the day. Ramanamurthy on theghatamwas seldom heard as the microphone set for him did not work satisfactorily. All in all, the concert was good in part, although holistically it was far from being outstanding.B.R.C.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122200380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122200380301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVishnubhatla sisters
p14
ss.