(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCaptivating music festival
p3
sVnews
p4
VSangeetha Ksheerasgaram, a music sabha, presented dozen-and-a-half artistes in five groups, in a music festival it held at Kala Subba Rao's mini theatre in Thyagaraya Gana Sabha, to mark 97th Jayanthi of Uppalapati Ankaiah, a great sangeetha vidwan of his times.The festival opened with G.Tirupataiah's concert. He is a visiting professor of Biotechnology, but is well trained in music with many academic qualifications to his credit. Sankarabharanam for Enduku Peddalavale was the highlight of his concert. The well versed and a thorough raga essay and nereval and swarakalpana marked this number. Mokshamu Galada in Saramathi and a rare Janani Mamava in Bhairavi with ragalapana were other numbers in earlier part of the concert. He was accompanied by O. Rajasekhar on the violin and K. Subramanyam on mridangam.Neat presentationAruna and Padma, disciples of Lalitha and Haripriya were the first pair to present a duet in the festival. They opened the concert with Saveri Varnam Sarasuda in three speeds. After Neevada Negana in Saranga, and Yenchi neenamamu in Vakulabharanam, they came out with a smooth essay of Varali for Kamakshi of Shyama Sastry, presented along with neravu and swarakalpana. But Rarayani Pilachite in Kharaharapriya of Mysore Vasudevachar was their main number. The raga delineation was done by Aruna exploring its beauties. The neraval and swarakalpana were well distributed between them. They concluded with a Tillana in Bhageswari. C. Ananthakrishna on violin and Burra Sriram on mridangam lent support.Akondi Srinivasa Raja Rao on the third day opened with Sri Maha Ganapathe in Abhogi. Sri Ramana Vibho of Swathi Tirunal in Arabhi was among early numbers that he rendered pleasingly. Kapi was his main raga essay that evolved well in the composition of Thyagaraja, Inta Soukhyamani. It was presented with interesting Swara combinations. He also rendered a rare devotional number of Toomu Narasimha Dasu &#8211; Ninnevaremannarura Raghava in Begada. S.V.Ramanamurthy on violin, Nemani Somayajulu on mridangam and Janardan on Ghatam lent support.Sangeetha and Rajyalakshmi also performed a duet. They coordinated well in all the numbers. They opened with Navaragamalika varnam Valachi Vachi of Patnam. Siva Sivayanarada in Panthuvarali with raga essay and swaram were impressive numbers that figured in the earlier part of their concert. Bhairavi was the show piece and its delineation by Sangeethakala was delightful. Pallavi Sesha Iyer's Ikanannu was their choice and packed it with detailed nereval and swaraprasthara done by both.The end piece was a moving rendition of Hay Vithale, an Abhang in Madhyamavati. Patnam's Tillana in Khamas concluded their show. Bhatti Pawan Singh on violin and Ms.K.Veenadhari on mridangam accompanied them.Nihal's concert on the final day was a treat.He opened with a rare varnam Sarasangi Napai in Mayamalavagowla. Raga essay of Nata for the popular Swaminatha Paripalayamam of Swathi Tirunal was neat. Kalyani Amma Ravamma was treated well. The swarakalpana was imaginative. His main offering, however, was Mohana.He built it well in all the octaves and rendered Thyagaraja's Rara Rajeevalochana with good expression. The nereval and swarakalpana reflected his creative skills. He closed the concert with Lalgudi Tillana in Rageswari. Dinakar on violin, Kapa Srinivasa Rao on mridangam and T. P Balasubramanyam on Ghatam lent good support.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/01/stories/2011040150600300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/01/images/2011040150600301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTreat for music lovers (from left) Akondi Srinivasa Raja Rao, Aruna and Padma, Nihal and Sangeetha sisters presenting their recitals.
p14
ss.