(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRendezvous with rhapsody
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis disciple of Ustads Mashkoor Ali and Mubarak Ali Khan, in his early 20s now, is considered  the true blue torchbearer of the Kirana gharana. Another disciple of the Khans, Sandeep Bhattacharya,  too, caught the attention of connoisseurs  with his melodious voice and virtuosity. Together, Arshad and Sandeep  sang raga Bihag. The preliminary peaceful raga-delineation, the  composition set to medium paced Jhap tala of 10 beats adorned with imaginative embellishments and an ornate, fast Ek tala bandish with thrilling taans were extremely well-coordinated. Veteran accompanists Jyoti Goho (harmonium) and Gopal Misra (tabla) were very encouraging.Marked as the day of jugalbandi,the evening  closed with a sitar-cello duet in raga Jog, presented by the renowned musician-couple Subhendra Rao and Saskia Rao de Haas, with  Samar Saha&#8217;s supportive tabla. Earlier, Abhay Phagde&#8217;s flute and Milind Raikar&#8217;s violin were engaged in a jugalbandi, aided by Vinod Lele&#8217;s tabla. They adhered to Khayal ang based  playing.The second evening at Birla Sabhagar was dedicated to women of substance. Chitrangana Agle Reshwal, probably the only lady pakhawaj virtuoso, and Kamala Shankar, the first lady guitarist in  classical music with her &#8216;Shankar Guitar&#8217;, delighted the listeners as the opening and the final solo artistes of the soiree. But the seasonal Basant,  etched by Sucheta Ganguli and Manali Bose in a duet, was too striking to go unnoticed. The sharing of the beautiful, romantic compositions and inventive flourishes showcased the perfect understanding between the two talented SRA scholars  groomed by Pandit Arun Bhaduri.Kolkata&#8217;s culture aficionados  were transported to the golden era of Marathi Natya-Sangeet (the theatre music of Maharashtra) when  Pune&#8217;s  Nad-Brahma troupe performed in the city recently. It was led by Ravindra Ghangurde. Actively supported by his versatile actor-singer wife Vandana and an equally zealous team, Ghangurde is striving to revive this dying art, further gagged now by film music and the all-consuming television. They presented dazzling glimpses of olden melodic grandeur replete with costumes and props at Uttam Mancha.Accompanied by organ and tabla played by Kedar Bhagwat and Sanjay Phagare respectively, the  regional expression of musical idioms leaned heavily on Hindustani classical music. The rich tone of the lone organ, a rare instrument now, created the desired ambiance.Most of the songs were accompanied by dialogues. Both the raga-based complex compositions and the emotion-charged dialogues were delivered deftly, especially by Vandana. The effortless ease of picking up a taan-laden song at the drop of a hat was amazing!&#8226;Khayal ang and Gat ang are two approaches adopted by classical instruments. While the first follows the style of Khayal singing &#8211; an introductory phrase (aochar), composition, elaboration and complete ornamentation, the latter begins with the commonly practiced alap-jod-jhala and the whole gamut of &#8216;gat&#8217; playing.&#8226;Like the Jatra in Bengal and Nautanki in Uttar Pradesh, the Natya-Sangeet musical play of Maharashtra has a rich tradition since 1880. Half a century back Marathi Natya Sangeet was at its peak. Legendary classical vocalists like Balkrishnabuwa Ichalkaranjikar, Bal Gandharva, Govind Rao Tembe and Dinanath Mangeshkar took this provincial form, initially based on kirtan, tappa or baithak ki laavni, to new heights.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/04/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/04/11/stories/2008041150630200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.