(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA Syrian symphony
p3
sVnews
p4
VWhen Mohammad was asked why he didn&#8217;t visit Damascus, the Prophet of Islam answered, &#8220;One cannot go twice to  paradise.&#8221; Fortunately, 15 journalists from  the Indian Women&#8217;s Press Corps had the privilege of being invited  to Syria recently, where civilisations have grown upon each other for at least the last 5000 years. Cited in Egyptian and Mesopotamian sources at the beginning of second century B.C., the Syrian capital of Damascus is one of the oldest continually inhabited cities  of the world. From the early Bronze Age, Syria has seen and absorbed the civilisations of numerous empires like the ancient Phoenician to Roman, Byzantine and Ottoman and they have enriched its cultural heritage. The first written alphabet and the first written music notes burst forth from this land.Syria represents a unique blend of tradition and modernity in its arts, crafts and music. There is a fabulous variety of music here, from the traditional Arabian to Sufi , from  desert folk and tribal music to  Western opera and  jazz. The oldhavelisconverted into restaurants have preserved not only the old artefacts but also the Oriental music. The  Ministry of  Culture not only runs 426 cultural centres all over Syria but also has many institutes that specialise in music training of children.The General Association of Dar-Al-Assad for Culture and Arts presented the Syrian opera singer Arax Chekijian accompanied by pianist Fadi Jubaili at the Drama Theatre &#8211; Dar Al Assad in a superb opera. Her chiselled voice and unbelievable range kept the audience mesmerised.Another concert comprising Arabian instruments like  kanoon,  nai (Arabic flute)  buzuk (said to be the mother of the lute known as oud) and  daff or  req, along with the violin, viola and saxophone were played flawlessly by the students of Solkhi Alwadi Institute of Music that specialises in training talented children. The youngsters presented a  symphony from the Syrian heritage and an Arabic piece based on the story of the Arabian Nights titled Alif-Laila composed by Juan Karjoli, the director of the institute. Juan is a renowned   oud player of Syria. He fondly remembered  his  jugalbandi with Pandit Debu Chaudhuri which was based on Bhupal Todi. On request Juan also played Sufi music on the oud for us. Based on our raga Kirwani, his imaginative improvisations inalapwere adorned withmeend(glissando) andzamzama(tremolo). Totally immersed in devotion, his Sufi music had a meditative quality.We also had an opportunity to listen to the traditional music of Syria in Alleppo where the vocalist was accompanied by  kanoon,  oud and  req the tambourine. Their music has an amazing similarity to our Kafi and Bhairavi thaat. The music of the desert awaited us in Palmera where the lively group of folk artistes made us dance with them. The ensemble comprised instruments like  rabab,  mizuvin (double flute),  burduk (a percussion instrument that resembled the  huduk of Uttarakhand) and a couple of vocalists. The director of national television also gifted this critic an incredible variety of Syrian music CDs where an azaan mesmerises with its musicality.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/05/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/05/08/stories/2009050850060200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/05/08/images/2009050850060202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.