(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelody Mahotsavam
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Varshika Sangeetha Mahotsavam-2005 coinciding  with the Vardhanthi of the present ruling Pontiff of Sringeri Math, Sri Bharathi Theertha Mahaswamigal, and the Sri Ramanavami conducted by the Sringeri Sankara Math, Srirangam, witnessed overwhelming response from the music lovers of this temple town.B. Sundarkumar performed a navaham on Sundarakandam and   with profuse quotations  explained in detail the greatness of Hanuman as a Rama Baktha. The concert by Bangalore M. S. Sheela displayed her perfect control of her octaves, and her choices were impressive.The piece de resistance was `Naradhamuni Vedalini' in Pantuvarali. Saraseeruga, Saradha Karuna Varidhi, Nanubrova and Intha Thamasa were rendered with melody and bhava.The performance of Koviladi Madhavaprasad was fulfilling and his Todi alapana was well delineated.Emotional appealThe concert of Sanjay Subramaniam comprised rare ragas.  He began  with Nattakurinji varnam and gave an exhilarating but brief alapana of Harikambhoji,  in which he rendered `Dinamani Vamsa' in all its nuances. Yet again another rarely sung raga, Chinthamani, was splendidly elucidated.Sanjay rendered Amirkalyani in all its purity in which he impressively brought out the emotional appeal of the composition, `Manaamuledha Thanavaada.'  It was  a different evening when R. Anantharaman demonstrated and lectured on `Sri Rama Nama Ganavali', that included compositions on Lord Rama by late Sirugamani Bramha Sivaramakrishna Bhagavathar.A well-delineated Todi by Nisha Rajagopal earned her  accolades from the discerning Tiruchi connoisseurs. Tiruchi K. Ramesh's Mohanam alapana was enjoyable.Sathur Sisters Lalitha Santhanam and Bhuvana Rajagopal gave a  pleasing  concert. Rudrapatnam Brothers, R. N. Thyagarajan and R. N. Tharanathan chose Madhyamavati for elaboration. `Ramakatha Sudha' was very pleasingly rendered.  The youngest artiste of the ten-day concert was Aiswarya Vidhya Raghunath, a 16-year-old promising musician from Bangalore.Her performance revealed her command of voice modulation.  She rendered  `Rama Nee Samanamevvaru' with all the lilt and melody. The crown piece of the Ramanavami festival was the concert of O. S. Thiagarajan. His inimitable elucidation of Sankarabaranam and Hindolam in which he rendered ragha lakshanas with depth, and `Ramanukku Mannan Mudi and `Eduta Nilachithe' of Tyagaraja penetrated the soul.Songs of Sringeri acharya`Gems of Sannidhanam,' CD/cassette containing the compositions of the present head of Sringeri Pitam, Sri Bharati Tirtha swami, was recently released. The songs in simple Sanskrit have been mellifluously rendered by the Hyderabad Brothers whose concert marked the function held in Srirangam.The cassette/CD was released by Prema Nandakumar, writer, and was sponsored by Saradha and Sridhar, an NRI couple. The first cassette was received by C. S. Balakrishnan, former Chief Engineer, Highways. The album was first released at a function held in Sringeri in connection with the acharya's birthday. The Hyderabad Brothers, with clear enunciation of words and skilful use of ragas, have rendered the bouquet of songs.The cassette takes off with Ganesa Dhyanam and a kriti in Saveri. Shanmukhapriya is the raga chosen for presenting `Subramanyam Sadaa Vande' with a vigorous movement. `Dasarathe' begins on the same note as Tyagaraja's `Dasarathe Nee Rinamu' but moves to a glorious play of swara patterns for Sri Bharati Tirtha's song, `Dasarathe Mam Palaya Thaditha Dasavadhana.'Tuned in Sankarabharanam, the lines are repeated by Jayashri and Gayatri; here, as elsewhere one hears only one voice, such is the perfect harmony between the brothers. `Sri Saradambam Bhaje' is set in raga Saraswati, once again chosen appropriately, as the presiding deity is the Goddess of Learning. The Chandramouleeswara Varnamala Stotram is rendered as a ragamalika virutham.The four compositions that follow are dedicated to Adi Sankara.The cassette concludes with `aksharamala'  opening with the word, `Akhilananda' dedicated to Sri Abhinava Vidya Theertha. `Gems of Sannidhanam' (CD Rs 125 and cassette Rs. 45) is available at the Srirangam Sringeri Math (2432343).SYED MUTHAHAR SAQAFBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/06/stories/2005050600460200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.