(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA slice of the past, lively style
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANMadurai M.P.N.Ponnusami's nagaswaram recital at the Nagaswara-thavil Festival 2007 was special in more ways than one.The septuagenarian vidwan recreated a slice of the past that launched listeners on a nostalgia trip to the time when his playing along with M.P.N.Sethuraman's breathed life into the evergreen melodies of `Thillana Moganambal.'The success of the film and the widespread appeal of its music was a shot in the arm for an entire generation of nagaswara-thavil artistes who were inspired enough to take it up as a profession. Therefore, the large turnout of vidwans and rasikas was a mark of solidarity, the venue wearing an especially festive air that evening.Supported by Thiruparankundram P.R. Viswanathan, the artiste commenced on an intriguing note, with his own composition `Siddhi Vinayaka' in Srothaswini.Again, melody came to the fore with the Tyagaraja krithi `Entha Muddo' (Bindumalini). A delineation of Karnaranjani was airbrushed with gently dipping jarus and followed up with Ambujam Krishna's `Om Namo Narayana.'Touch of melancholyThe lengthy Pantuvarali alapana carried a tinge of melancholy with the surfacing of several panchama-varja prayogas and the bitter-sweet tone was reminiscent of the shehnai.Papanasam Sivan's `Amba manam Kanindu' was rendered with feeling, the sarvalaghu swaras incorporating catchy kanakkus leading to the kuraippu at the panchama.The tukkada items proved immensely popular and included `Kanna Vaa' (Madhuvanthi), a Tiruppugazh (Sallapam), `Aayiram Kann' with a lively `English Note' suffix and another Tiruppugazh (Kanada, played in madhyama sruthi).The special thavil thani was truly the icing on the cake as Vedaranyam V.G.Balasubramaniam and Senthamangalam A. Manikandan served up a sparkling cocktail of sollus.Lively duoMannargudi M.S.K.Shankaranarayanan and M.S.K. Venkatesan formed a lively duo with a colourful, flamboyant style that infused a strong dose of energy into their presentation. The upbeat air of `Namami Vigna Vinayaka' transmitted thejoie-de-vivreof Hamsadhwani. `Raga Sudharasa' (Andolika) packed a powerful punch while rivulets of melody coursed through `Balasubramanya' (Bhimplas).The main piece `Nee Nrittam Idum'and the Sarasangi raga yielded an unusual mélange of sancharas.The brigas were whizzing Catherine wheels streaking across the night sky in a spectacular firework display. Much attention was lavished on the kalpanaswaras replete with kanakkus and a grand korvai.Big surpriseNow came the big surprise of the evening. Two solemn little boys ascended the dais and proceeded to play a special thavil thani which proved a point &#151;  their level of proficiency was in inverse proportion to their size.Within minutes, Thirukarugavur T.D.M.Anandasubramaniam (aged all of 8) and Thirumalapadi S. Gopinath (aged 13) were giving older artistes a run for their money, wowing listeners with the amazing clarity of their strokes and a variety of challenging sollus that rolled out with anazhuthamto equal that of their seniors.Special thavil vidwans, Idumbavanam K.S.Kannan and Thaththapuram Ganesan followed this up with their much-awaited thani during which percussion aficionados had a field day, gleefully followingnadaivariations with contagious enthusiasm.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032301820500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032301820502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VM.S.K. Shankaranarayanan (left) and M.S.K.Venkatesan.
p14
ss.