(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDedicated to kirtanas
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe gurus behind Keertana&#8217;s House of Music and Dance, affiliated to the Music University, were Indira Kala Sangeetha Vishwa Vidyalaya, Khairagarh and Chattisgarh. And gurus behind this show were Carnatic vocalist of renown M. V. Kamala Ramani, great veteran D. K. Pattammal&#8217;s disciple, and Ms. Bala Tripurasundari, Kuchipudi dance maestro Vempati Chinna Satyam&#8217;s daughter and disciple.D. Seshachari of vocal duo Hyderabad Brothers, and also guru of Kamala Ramani, was all praise for the standards the young musicians and dancers displayed in this one day festival. For a change, the repertoire sounded more like a theme based production onSaint Thyagaraja&#8217;s Pilgrimage.On being invited by his disciples, Thyagaraja undertook a pilgrimage in the latter part of his life, going from Tirupati to Lalgudi, down South. He composed lyrics on all the deities he prayed to.The young vocalists took up a kirtana from each set of compositions. The rendition began with aGanesha Pancharatnam, a compendium of slokas rendered in different ragas.This was followed by a kirtana onMeenakshi, an old and rare composition by Pydala Gurumurtry, set in Sriragam to Dhruva Talam. The song was presented in the format of an orchestral (veena, violin and mridangam) and vocal combination , and made quite a smart opening.The vocal presentation of the Pancharatna set comprisedTerateeyagaraadain Gowlipanthu ;Sambho Mahadevain Pantuvarali of Kovur Pancharatnas;Lalithe Sri Pravrudhein Bhairavi, a Lalgudi Panchartna kirtana;Sundari Nee Divya Roopamuin Kalyani, of Kanchi;O Rangasayiin Kambhoji andVinayakunivale, a composition in Madhyamavati from other sets of Panchartna kirtanas.Of the vocal concerts, the one presented by Kanti Swaroop was quite attractive for his lyrical expression as much as for his melodic lilt in rendition. He also delineated raga Kambhoji forO Ranga Sai. Kanti Swaroop has already won top prizes in various competitions held by prestigious Sabhas.The dance part of the show was dominated by half a dozen numbers. The notable ones wereNataraja Sthuthiand Annamacharya&#8217;s compositions -Muddugare Yasodain Kuranji andParamapurushain Mohana.For a change the repertoire also had a popular national songJaya Priya Bharata Janayitriset in Hindustani raga, Tillang.Vani, a gold medal winning post-graduate in Music and Bala Tripura Sundari, Vempati Chinna Satyam&#8217;s daughter and disciple, conducted the respective music and dance shows.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/09/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/09/14/stories/2007091451050300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.