(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn array of talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNAN`Utsav'- the week-long Hindustani Sangeeth Samaroh held at the SGS Sabha was a triumph of planning made possible by the confluence of four organisations &#151;  Vishwa Kala Sangama, Panchakshara Sangeeth Yogashram Trust, Aalaap and Pt. Krishnanand Music Circle, with the sabha. Although the hall is not structured for acoustic comfort, the powerful sound system did much to overcome this hurdle. The programmes featured a slew of talent from other cities as well as Chennai. The festival was inaugurated on August 5, with felicitations by vidwan T.N. Krishnan and R. Ramachandran, Secretary of Hamsadhwani, to the noted sitar exponent and convener of the Sammelan, Pt Janardhan Mitta, for his significant contribution to the cause of music.Memorable performanceOnce the concert began, it was Saaniya Patankar's evening all the way. A memorable performance was in store from this gifted young vocalist from Pune, a disciple of Ashwini Bhide, (Jaipur-Atrauli gharana).  A slow, melodious start in the artiste's crystal clear voice progressed to languid glides and the characteristic halt at the tivra nishadh. Gamaks carried punch and assurance while taans flowed with ease and precision. The tappa `Ritu bar aayi' was a rapid colloquial conversation, fascinating in form.The stunningly-tuned Sri Krishna bhajan revealed a multi-hued fabric reflecting shades of converging ragas and sung with absolute command. Ravindra Katoti (harmonium) and Uday Karpur (tabla) shone in their roles by complementing the vocalist's high standard. Janab Faiyaz Ahmed Khan's presentation was decidedly interesting. This multifaceted artiste, also accomplished on the sarangi and tabla, believes in journeying beyond the mundane to explore intriguing possibilities fraught with risks and rewards.The chote khayal in Sarang Kauns (vilambit ek taal, drut teen taal) spoke the language of sensitivity, also evident in `Johan ban' in Sohni. A beautiful piece in Gaavathi (dhrut teen taal) surfaced, the taans emerging with effortless fluidity as delicate rills and swift flights.  The accompanists, Eashwar Murgeri (harmonium), Veereshwar Madri (violin) and Gurusangappa Hogar (tabla) worked seamlessly as a team, with vibrant responses.It was to a packed hall that Pt Upendra Bhat performed, bringing his considerable experience and expertise to bear upon his recital. An exponent of the Kirana gharana and the disciple of Pt Bhimsen Joshi, his music was marked by the same vigour and vitality that distinguish his guru's style. A powerful Purya Dhanashree was unleashed in `Sumiro tero naam, with a disciplined many-layered build-up reverberating with gamak bol tans leading to the tara sthayi shadja above which full-throated passages brimmed with vitality. The ever-appealing `Paayaliyaan jhankar' was followed by a brief taraana.  The pieces in Sur Malhar and Marwa stood out for their evocative feel. It was a delight to absorb the authentic regional flavour of the abhangs in Mishra Maand, Bhimplas and Malkauns.Jayaram Kilpadi (harmonium) and Ram Jadhav (tabla) were excellent in their accompaniment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081103170600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/11/images/2006081103170601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCRYSTAL CLEAR VOICE: Saaniya Patankar.
p14
ss.