(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGamaka is not alien  to keyboard
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANJANI GOVIND"Although the keyboard or the electric synthesiser are dubbed western by purists who say the instrument cannot produce gamakas, the young lad K. Satyanarayanan, having explored the use of support chords and the bender, brings out the nuances of Carnatic music so perfectly," said S. P.Balasubramaniam, at the launch of the instrumental fusion album ``The Classic Medley - Vaathapi to Vandematharam" at Vani Mahal this past Monday.SPB shared the dais with two other guests of honour, violinist A. Kanyakumari and A. Natarajan, Former Director, Doordarshan, during the formal release of the album. Muthukumar of Kosmic Music, who has produced the set of CD and cassette, was also present on the occasion.While blessing the keyboard kid for a long innings of intellectual and entertaining associations with the instrument, SPB recalled how talented yesteryear stalwarts too had demonstrated bringing in gamakas on a double bellow harmonium. Dedication is the key to success, he added.Kanyakumari warned the younger generation to take a cautious road in the journey of music.Straight lessons in kirtanai could give you certificates, but real music lies in raga-and-swara-manodharma, she reiterated, even as she hailed the evening's young hero for his endeavour.``I am sandwiched between vidwans," chuckled Natarajan, who recalled the days when harmonium was banned in AIR because `it wasn't known to produce gamakas.'``These are days of innovation, a reflection of travel, growth and influence, and it is necessary, as the audience is global," he said.  The mandolin was just making waves  and the late MGR was keen that  AIR should include young Srinivas. We have to take the cue from the former CM to encourage anything novel," said Natarajan even as he praised Satyanarayanan's album that had a variety of ragas, talas and composers showcased in a new genre.This medley is an innovation by itself, classical compositions of well-known composers are woven with alapanas, swaras and tanam skilfully with western-patterned rhythm on percussion by Nagi and bass guitar by Mani.HighlightsSome highlights of the album were presented by Satyanarayanan with Nagi on percussion, Suri on Bass Guitar, and T. Krishnababu and K.Lalitha on the vocals. Glimpses of raga Hamsadwani opened up the medley to ``Vathapi" of Dikshitar.As Sathya stopped at one note, he would pick up the next piece on the same note, a highlight of the album that fused with some enjoyable laya on percussion, and brought the curtains down with the patriotic thoughts of Bankimchandra Chatterji's serene and tranquil Vande Maataram.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/18/stories/2005111802860300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/18/images/2005111802860301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPRODIGY: K. Satyanarayanan playing excerpts from his album.  Photo: R. Ragu
p14
ss.