(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor that touch of innovation
p3
sVnews
p4
VSUJATHA VIJAYARAGHAVANNomenclature falls by the wayside when a tidal wave of popular appeal proclaims the advent of a phenomenon. The old guard stands confounded in its attempt to label it.In such a context, giving it a new name would perhaps be the first step towards recognition of a new genre.Take for instance, Visaka Hari, who  is described as a Harikatha exponent. Sure enough her performances have all the features of the Harikatha, namely story telling, music, quotations from scriptures, epics and legends, a stress on morals and spiritualism, shades of drama and humour and anything else that would fit in. Her captivating voice and music of a high order mesmerise the crowd, while her fluent story-telling rivets the attention of the audience.Critics find her a rookie in need of erudition, experience and disciplined exposition. They frown upon her rendition of songs in full every few minutes, with all the accoutrement of a music concert. But the audience laps it all up and asks for more.Would it help to rename her presentations as a Geetha Katha or Sangeetha Katha or Sangeetha Upanyasam? If anything, it would place the music on par with the story telling, as she is basically a full-fledged concert musician striking out a new path as a story teller.The tradition of combining music with story-telling has manifested in various forms through the ages.  Long before the age of the film and the television, the most sought after form of entertainment was the Harikatha. What began as a vehicle to convey the story of Hari and other gods was adapted now and again to convey new and contemporary themes.Sometime back the versatile artiste, Revathi Sankaran, took to the Harikatha format, attireda laSaraswathi Bai, in a Marathi kachcham sari and anathadorning her nose. What she handled was Nara Katha, the story of the legendary M.S.Subbulakshmi, performed in her own lifetime. The audience appeal was instant and rapturous.Vidwan Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan has been presenting the life of his Parama Guru, Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavathar, in the Harikatha format. He has subsequently presented Kamba Ramayanam and other subjects. Needless to add, the expositions were welcomed by one and all.Doyan among musiciansIncidentally, Muthaiah Bhagavathar was himself a doyen among musicians, who had a parallel career as a Harikatha exponent. The famous English note popularised by Madurai Mani Iyer is reported to be one of Bhagavatar's compositions to depict the ride of Krishna with Rukmini on the chariot. Seshagopalan remembers his Guru C.S.Sankarasivam telling him about a Harikatha(!) that his Guru Muthiah Bhagavathar had performed at the inauguration of the Spencers in Madras. He is reported to have traced the history of the British coming to India as traders, linking the event with the opening of the Spencers.Music inevitably gets the upper hand when the performer is a musician and the audience would probably be disappointed if the performer chooses to sing just snippets of the favourite numbers. In the late Fifties of the last century Needamangalam Krishnamurthy Bhagavathar was a sensation when he started giving Sangeetha Upanyasams of Bhagavatham with songs by Oothukkadu Venkatasubbier, whose name came into prominence for the first time, centuries after his passing away.I remember attending them at more than one venue in Madurai. The series were highly popular and the special Kalinga Narthanam sequence extending over more than one day, drew record crowds. His sonorous rendering of the Kalinga Narthana Thillana, had requests for encore. This thillana has shot into fame with Aruna Sairam's rendering.Scholars and experts on Harikatha may or may not grant their whole-hearted approval to these innovations. Still the new modes will keep appearing as and when a gifted artist is inspired to take to story telling. There have been other forms in the recent times, combining music and talk.The YACM had experimented with a new form, which they called lec-cons (lecture concerts). They had a format of a mini concert, interspersed with talk upon Carnatic music and the features of a typical concert. A quiz at the end made the presentation interactive and the format was adapted by young musicians to spread Carnatic music in schools, colleges and among other audiences.Another format had the musician explaining the meaning and context of the lyrics as a prelude to every song. At times the songs were loosely connected to form a theme. Vijay Siva and Neyveli SanthanaGopalan have given memorable lec-cons, which are cherished by music lovers.Working on similar lines there is a new combination of dance, music and talk, which is gaining popularity. The Natayrangam of Narada Gana Sabha has launched a programme called Jana Bharatham, which means, "dance for the people." Doing away with live music, elaborate costumes and even a stage, groups of young dancers visit schools, colleges, orphanages, old age homes and other venues to present a short programme of traditional dance items with informal explanations with lively good humour and drama. These interactive sessions have an equal complement of information and entertainment.Nearly two decades ago I started presenting items in Bharatanatyam by young dancers, with a talk on topics like Madhura Bhakthi, Nindasthuthi, Prakriti etc. Initially they were billed as lec-dems (lecture demonstrations). A member of the audience once remarked that it was a misnomer to call them so, as they were an amalgam of poetry, music, dance, philosophy, spiritualism and a comment on contemporary scene. Subsequently I coined the term "Nrithya Geethaanubhavam" as I viewed them as a sharing of experiences in literature, music, dance and all else aforesaid.The garden has many a flower, known and unknown. It is likely that the new fragrance is that of a jasmine or a manoranjitham. In trying to identify in it the features of a Rose, let us not lose sight of the new exotic bloom.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/13/stories/2006101302410800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/13/images/2006101302410803.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVisakha Hari.
p14
ss.