(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSumptuous vocal feast
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIThis year,  Ramanavami celebrations at `Lalitha Niwas,' Coimbatore,  featured  music concerts that began after Ramayana Upanyasa and daily bhajans for nine days. The first  in  the series was a concert by  Thrissur V. Ramachandran.When he entered the stage with M. A. Sundareswaran (violin), K. V. Prasad (mridangam) and (Vaikkom Gopalakrishnan (ghatam), the audience  hoped of partaking a sumptuous feast; and  they were not disappointed.Brisk startRamachandran began with "Intha Chalamu Jesithe," a varnam in Begada, and moved on to present his guru GNB's kriti, "Karimukha Varadha'' in Nattai.Tyagaraja's "Entharani'' in Harikamboji  followed suit. The singer had to strain during the neraval for "Seshudu Shivuniki," but was back in form during the swaraprastharas.The delineations of Lathangi and Sivasakthi were pleasant and the kritis chosen were "Marivere Dikkevvaru'' by Patnam Subramaniya Iyer and "Sri Chakra Raja Nilaye'' by GNB respectively. Sankarabharanam was taken up as the main raga. Ramachandran brought out the beauty of the raga during the alapana and presented the not-so-common kriti by Tyagaraja,  "Eduta Nilichithe"."Rama Ninne  Nammithi," "Narayana Ninna Namava," "Muraleedhara Gopala" and "Sonnadhai Seidhida Saagasamaa'' decorated the latter part of the concert. An impressive ragamalika virutham with the slokam from Narayaneeyam, "Yogeendraanaam'' preceded the magnificent "Maamava Pattaabhirama'' in Manirangu by Dikshitar.All the four artistes seemed to have an equal share in making the concert an enjoyable one. Ramachandran was generous in letting Sundareswaran take over, and how the vocalist responded! The vocalist was all attention while the violinist wielded his bow and was beaming at the music that flowed through. The combination of the violin and ghatam was very pleasing. K. V. Prasad and Gopalakrishnan gave a spirited display and the tani that lasted quite long made one ask for more. The incredible speed, imagination and new combinations of laya that the percussionists displayed were admirable.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041400160300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041400160301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VThrissur  V. Ramachandran
p14
ss.