(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSmooth flow of ragas
p3
sVnews
p4
VInnovation in any field is welcome, especially in the field of fine arts. The innovation is bound to be appreciated provided it is within the boundaries set by the past masters. Carnatic music is no exception to this for, the rasika’s ears over years of listening will, to a great extent expect a time-tested methodology for their listening pleasure.R.  Muthusubramaniam, a senior vocalist who has had tutelage under Kandadevi Chellam Iyengar and K.S. Narayanaswamy, sticks to the conventional path. His presentation of ragas flows smoothly from his lakshya gnanam which is  essential for an artiste. The violin and mridangam accompanists,  M. Chandrasekharan and  Umayalpuram Mali,  are seasoned artistes who have provided  the right support.Paying his obeisance to the elephant-headed obstacle remover Ganesha, the vocalist renders ‘Thathvam Ariya Tharama,’ a Papanasam Sivan creation in Ritigowlai and Adi talam. The rendering is neat with a bare minimum of kalpanaswaras at ‘Madhisekaran Magane’ which falls after three  mathras from samam.The brief Panthuvarali sketch is convincing and replete with the raga’s hues. ‘Aparamabhakti’ of Tyagaraja has been decorated with niraval and a few avartas of kalpanaswaras. The accompanists do their job with a lot of relish. Out of the few songs extolling Lord Narasimha, the most popular one in the Carnatic music concert arena is ‘Narasimha Maamava’ in Arabhi. This Swati Tirunal composition has earned its rightful place due the fine polishing done by Semmangudi. The vocalist’s version is brisk and vibrant which suits the melody.Durusuga’ (Saveri) of Syama Sastri and a composition of the current pontiff of the Sringeri Math  Bharathi Tirtha in Kamas are sung with a focus on bhava. The Kamas piece, ‘Sri Sharadambam’ has been set to music captivatingly by V. Subrahmaniam.The central piece of this disc is the frequently heard magnum opus, ‘Balagopala’ of Muthuswami Dikshitar in Bhairavi. Muthusubramaniam’s vinyasa of Bhairavi is built on meaningful phrases and is a satisfying essay. The kriti is sung with gusto and the following niraval at ‘Neela Neeratha Sharira’ with solfa passages and a  kuraippu provide traditional kutcheri fare. Umayalpuram Mali’s thani avartanam is professional with his chapus, arai chapus, meetu chapus and gumkis adding to the listening pleasure.The virutham, ‘Oru Tharam Sharavanabhava’ is wrongly attributed to Papanasan Sivan in the inlay card. Sivan’s creations did not include the virutham genre. The composer of this virutham is ‘Swamimalai Balasubramania Desigar’ who happened to be a Odhuvar.  Shanmughapriya, Kanada and Hamsanandi are the ragas employed for the virutham.The artiste could have eschewed from choosing Shanmugapriya immediately after Bhairavi which would have provided a better contrast. M. Chandrasekharan’s violin accompaniment leaves nothing to be desired. A Tirupugazh in Hamsanandi winds up the disc to a devotional finish.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/03/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/03/14/stories/2008031481170400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.