(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRare mandolin show
p3
sVnews
p4
VI t seems that these days, an increasing number of mandolin players are joining the Carnatic instrumental music circuit, thanks to the  innovative work done by Mandolin Srinivas and his younger brother U.R. Raju who has joined him.  Now it's the turn of Raju's wife Nagamani.The Department of Culture recently featured the couple in a mandolin duet, which eventually turned out to be  the highlight of the entire  Thyagaraja Aradhana, held in the premises of the Ravindra Bharati.In their duet, Raju and his wife, surprised the audience with their immaculate presentation of chosen numbers. Palakollu Subbaraju, who trained Srinivas, also teaches Raju.Raju picked up his mandolin with equal zeal and has been pairing with his brother Srinivas in many a mandolin show, both in India and abroad. Now after marriage, he has begun  performing with his wife Nagamani,  who has also proved to be adept at playing this instrument.When you hear Raju, you  feel like you're listening to Srinivas as Raju seems to have come up with an identical style. Together you can call this Subbaraju Gharana or Srinivas Gharana. Nagamani seems to be an equally gifted girl and is a chid prodigy too.On this occasion Raju and Nagamani proved to be an excellent combination. It was simply a delightful show. Raga delineation, swara play and other instrumental wizardry were done with precision.RaghunayakainHamsadhwani, opened the concert with imaginative swara play, in rhythmic patterns. RagaSaraswathiwent to  Raju and the composition wasAnuragamuleni.He also playedCharukesiforAada Modi Galada. The flavour of the ragaCharukesicould be felt more while they were playing the kriti. The swara play too was quite thrilling.D. S. R. Murthy on mridangam and K. Shyam Kumar (Kanjeera)gave apt touches.Thie Tani Avartanam too rose to the level of the concert obviously inspired by it.Other notable numbers of their concert wasSamajavaragamanainHindolam, because of the virtuoso skills they put up.G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/27/stories/2006012701480300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/27/images/2006012701480301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSICAL DUO Raju and Nagamani strum the strings.
p14
ss.