(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDasara musical extravaganza
p3
sVnews
p4
VDasara festive season arrived with a cultural bonanza in Vijayawada. The Swarajhari Sabha conducted Dasara Sangeetotsavam for three days at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram temple complex, recently taken over by Sringeri Sarada Peetha Maha Samsthanam.The festival was inaugurated by Jonnavithula Prabhakarasastri, Dharmadhikari of the Kshetram. The brief function was followed by an impressive vocal concert by V.V. Viswanath, a disciple of Modumudi Sudhakar.The concert took off with a brisk varnam in Hamsadhvani followed by Sidhivinayakam in Shanmukhapriya. The raga was neatly delineated by Viswanath and next he sang a composition of Toomu Narasimhadas in Bowli. After rendering Bantureeti in Hamsanadam, Viswanath sang Syamasastri's famous Swarajathi in Bhairavi in a serene manner. He took up Hindola and Kalyani as major items, treating both with good raga elaborations and kalpana swaras. The keertanas Saraswathi in Hindola and Sundari in Kalyani respectively were neatly rendered with clarity of Sahityam. The concert came to close with an Annamayya keertana and a thillana.A sumptuous group singing of a large number of Annamacharya keertanas were featured as the second day's programme. Good coordination and devotional rendering marked the group singing. The participating singers were M. Anjana Sudhakar, K.L. Lavanya, M. Srutiranjani, D.L. Nagaswathi, Vidya, V.R.K. Kumari and T.N.V.S. Ramya. Particularly attractive were the keertanas Anjaneya Anilaja (Arabhi), Satulala Choodare (Kafi), Tirumala giri raya (Mohana), Narasimha and Unnatonnatuda (Sunadavinodini).The final day's programme was a fine vocal duet by sisters T.K. Saroja and T.K.L. Sujatha, disciples of late vidwan and scholar N.Ch. Krishnamacharyulu. The duo sang in pure traditional style impressing with good voice synchronization and fine manodharmam. They started with a varnam in Ranjani following with keertanas in Nata and Saveri. Lalithesri of Dikshitar in Bhairavi was pleasingly rendered with excellent raga versions and swaras by both. The major items in the concert were Neerajakshi in Hindola and Sri Kanaka Durge in Kalyani. The two keertanas were pleasingly rendered with good manodharmam aspects.Instrumental support for all the three day's concerts was provided well by U. Hariprasad (violin) and K. Anilkumar (mridangam).
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/15/stories/2010101550600200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/15/images/2010101550600202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VV.V Viswanath.
p14
ss.