(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFrom a rich  repertoire
p3
sVnews
p4
VLive Kutcheri Carnatic classical -Aruna Sairam CDW DVD VideoPrice Rs.1200Aruna is in the contemporary scenario one of the most popular performing lady vocalists who has a huge fan following both within the country and abroad. Her concentrated efforts and a keen desire to give different dimensions to her art has earned for her an exclusive niche in the kutcheri arena. The brisk Sahana varnam of Thiruvottriyur Tyagayyar lifts the curtain with Tyagaraja's lovely Bindumalini kriti, `Enthamuddo Enthasogaso' following at its heels. The song interpretation with a good deal of zest could have done without a few flaws in the sahitya. Since it is the trend  for aspiring youngsters to learn from CDs and cassettes to increase their repertoire, artistes of worthy calibre would do well to analyse carefully their input in these permanent recordings.Pleasant impact`Bhuvaneswariya' in Mohanakalyani by Muthiah Bagavathar, a favourite of the singer, is a spruce rendering. The brief alapana preceding the song and the kalpanaswaras for the pallavi sequence deserve appreciation. Papanasam Sivan's beautiful composition `Kanavendamo' in Sriranjani mirrors the devotees yearning to have darshan of Lord Nataraja in Chidambaram. Ranjani is elaborated with melody while the Yoga Narasimhan song with its chittaswaram has a pleasant impact.Raghavendra Rao's depiction on the violin spells merit. The Thodi vinyasa and Sivan's `Thamadhamaen' comprise the main course. The alapana does not explore the tara stayi range much, yet the overall swaroopa of this king of ragas emerges satisfactorily with focus on the madhyama stayi.The splendid anticipation of Mannargudi Easwaran on the mridangam and his tani avartanam with S.V. Ramani on the ghatam are class acts. The audience in any auditorium stays glued to their seats to listen to Aruna's abhangs, bhajans and other light classical songs.The `Kalinga Narthana' tillana of Uthukkadu Venkatsubbaier is a monumental composition, with a touch of the Kauthuvam genre pertaining to Bharatanatyam repertoire. It has been sung with verve, vitality and vigour a la Aruna. It is indeed creditable that the rendering is absolutely clear-cut and flawless.The fare in these albums is grist to the mill of Aruna fans.S.PBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/28/stories/2005102803580600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/28/images/2005102803580601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFor the learner and the connoisseur.
p14
ss.