(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTwo&#8217;s company
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe six-day  music and dance conference, Swar Vistar, recently held in Patna, presented some lovely duets among instrumentalists and classical dancers. A duet between  sarod player  N.N. Labh and flautist Vedprakash reminded one of the emerging trend of combining string and wind instruments. For long, duets between  two string instruments or wind instruments  were common in classical music. Of late, new trends have come up, especially  duets between sarod  and flute,  and thankfully the two blend well.Labh is a sarod player of the Maihar Senia gharana. Though a surgeon by profession, he is at home in the world of music. Here he presented raga Hemant with Vedprakash.  They executed the raga well in the alap, followed by a brief jod and the gats, or rhythmic compositions. They also rendered Nachari, a musical composition by the great poet Vidyapati of the Mithila region.  They concluded with a dhun in Bhairavi.The event also  featured a duet on the sarod and the sitar by Reeta Das of the Maihar Senia gharana and Rajesh Shah of the Benares Hindu University (BHU) respectively.They presented raga Rageshwari. A raga of the Khamaj thaat, Rageshwari has the basic element of shringar. While presenting the alap on the sarod and the sitar, Reeta and Rajesh succeeded in painting  the mood of the melody through the swaras and their intonations.They executed well the typical group of notes like Dha Ni Sa Ga, Ma Dha Ni Dha, Ma Dha Ma, Ga Ma Re Sa, highlighting the Madhaym, which is the dominant note in the raga.Ravi Shankar, a disciple of Malay Ghosh, provided  excellent rhythmic support on the tabla.In the dance segment, the two young talents of Bharatanatyam, Sudeepa Ghosh and Sangeeta Raman Kutti, tried to blend various postures and movements of the art form.Sangeeta has learnt Bharatanatyam from her father, the late  U. Ramankutti who groomed talent at the  Bharatiya Nritya Kala Mandir in Patna. Sudeepa received  her training at  Kalakshetra Foundation in Chennai. Mansi Behera and Shrawani Das who presented Odissi dance on the occasion are also the students of the  BNKM.Later, a vocal recital by Naresh Kumar Malhotra from Delhi impressed the audience. A disciple of Pandit Tejpal Singh, Naresh Malhotra has performed at  various music  festivals in the country.Systematic rendition of the raga and stress on a chaste presentation are his forte.He presented alap and a vilambit  composition in the evening raga Yaman.It was a sensitive portrayal of the melody, highlighting the beauty of typical  note groupings and the phrases. He executed well  notes like Sa Ga Pa, Dha Ni Dha Pa, Ga Pa Ga, Sa, Ni Dha Sa. It was followed by a  drut laya composition in raga Kalavati, an evening melody of the Khamaj thaat. He was accompanied on the tabla by Sunilkant Choudhary.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/03/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/03/07/stories/2008030750340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.