(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDelightful music fest
p3
sVnews
p4
VLIMITING ENTRY for a classical programme in Bhubaneswar may not be a good idea as was  evident  at the Bhubaneswar Music Circle-Festival 2005, at Rabinda Mandap .This despite the fact that  the festival featured  artistes like  Shubha Mudgal, Kadri Gopalnath and . Mangalampalli Balamurlikrishna over three days. The organisers had two artistes on each evening, one of the two being local.The festival opened with Mohini Mohan Pattnaik presenting a flute recital.He began with raag `Bhupali' and ended it with a sweet `dhun'. Then the redoubtable Shubha Mudgal took the stage. She started with raag `Maru Bihag' which was followed by  raag `Chhayanat.' the concluding pieces were a couple of `thumris.'Shubha's emotion-packed `Raatiyan Beet Gayi' moved the audience to spontaneous applause. The second evening featured Chittranjan Pani, a Hindustani vocalist, based in Bhubaneswar. Pani began with raag `Marwa,'went on to raag `Madhuvanti' and concluded with a bhajan.Kadri Gopalnath on the saxophone wove magic. Beginning. his flawless rendition of `Hansadhwani' set to adi taal and `Kalyan Basant' in six beats, sent the audience into raptures.The final evening featured young Sangita Panda, who presented Odissi music. It was followed by a scintillating performance by  noted vocalist, M Balamuralikrishna, whose presentations  of ragas, Rabindra sangeet, devotional songs and thillana guaranteed a pulsating finish to the colourful festival.While it is a good idea to give scope to local musicians time constraint was a major factor in pruning their performances of the build-up that is necessary in classical music.Superstitions debunked`Natya Chetana' in taking up the short story `Rebati' considered as the first short story in Oriya has proved that the masterpiece by Fakir Mohan Senapati is still relevant today.The story talks about the eponymous heroine who falls a victim to the social stigma and opposition to women's education. But she rebels and underscores the need for women's empowerment through education. There is her  grandmother steeped in superstition-ranged  against her liberated mind.Sujata, of Natya Chetana, directed the play and did the central role. Sujata's portrayal was marked by total involvement with her character. In typical `Natya Chetana' style of intimate  theatrics, the play had minimal, but innovative props, lots of action, music and vigorous body language. A monstrous figure in red garb symbolising death, decay and blind beliefs jumping around and stalking victims was great for visual impact.The play ended on a positive note with even the  superstitious grandmother getting reformed  by Rebati's modern thoughts. Championing women's emancipation from the  shackles of ignorance and illiteracy, the one- hour play previewed at Bhubaneswar was the highlight of the People's Theatre Festival at Khurda recently.The `Natya Chetana' troupe would take it round villages spreading awareness about an issue that has much significance even today.BIBHUTI MISHRABottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/03/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/03/04/stories/2005030401190200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/03/04/images/2005030401190201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNatya Chetana's version of "Rebati' proved the classic story is relevant today.
p14
ss.