(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSound training
p3
sVnews
p4
VArtistes stand to benefit when they have a background of the theory of their art form. It makes them better performers. This was the case with the vocal recital by R.S. Nandikumar, the proud son of a distinguished scholar Dr. R. Sathyanarayana of Mysore. He was singing for Vamshi Academy of Music Trust led by the famous flautist-father-son duo B.K. Anantharam and Amith B. Nadig, for its eighth anniversary and three-day Sangeetha Nrithyotsava held at the Rotary Club (West), Malleshwaram. Sri Purandara Seva Samithi, Mulabagal, Belakavady Rangaswamy Iyengar (veteran vocalist) and S. Shankar (renowned singer) were honoured with titles and mementos on the valedictory day.Nandakumar derived full benefits out of the twin gifts that he has been bestowed with &#151;  the classical knowledge and a melodious voice. It was something like a copybook rendition. The listeners had a few gems of music to pick up. The varna "Intha chowka" was manipulated in kaala and gathi bedhas. Usefully accompanied by Nalina Mohan (violin), Renukaprasad (mridanga), Krishnaprasad (ghata) and Sridhar (khanjari), he packed his recital with interesting ragas and krithis. A vritta ("Sri Vedandasyam tam namami") with chittaiswaras vouched for Nanda's classical equipment. An intricate Sowgandhini raga for Dikshitar's "Kamakoti Peethavaasini" with a shloka prelude drew the attention for his vidwat. In the kalpana swara sequence, his laya prowess got exposed. The elaborated versions of "Bhaja re manasa" and "Nannu paalimpa" (Mohana) with raga, sahitya and swaravinyasa cast a spell on the audience.* * *Veteran vocalist T.S. Vasantha Madhavi has carved a special niche for herself as a singer, teacher, composer and organiser. She has been doing yeoman service to the field of music from her Sri D. Subbaramayya Trust. This year's annual 14th Ragesri Sammelanotsava was held at the Gayana Samaja. Noted singer Rajamma Keshavamurthy presided over the conference. A symposium on the syllabus of music and dance examinations conducted by KSEEB was marked by the participation of leading musicians and dancers. This was followed by a puppet show by the famous puppeteer Dattatreya Arlikatti and his troupe Putthalli Kalaranga.The dexterity of the puppeteers brought alive the puppets weighing about eight to 10 kgs in the presentation of the story that revolved around the birth of Kumaraswamy and the killing of Taarakaasura.  It was a delightful experience.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011201890300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.