(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA haunting wistfulness
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeteran vocalist R.A. Ramamani with her vast experience in Carnatic music and various other genres has carved a special niche for herself as a meritorious performer. Blessed with a high pitch, her voice is of a fine texture, volume and throw.In Ramamani's singing there is a certain flavour and fragrance, an eternal yearning and wistfulness that never forsake her musical expression. In her vocal recital which opened the second music festival entitled "Deepotsava" under the aegis of Ananya at its sabhaangana, she was in full form. Happily accompanied by C.N. Chandrasekhar (violin), M.T. Rajakesari (mridanga) and B.N. Chandramowli (khanjari) she began with the Kedaragowla varna.She took up a fairly demanding Dikshitar-krithi "Sri Mahaganapatiravatumam" in Gowla raga. The neraval at "Prakashakaro" was studded with scholarly kalpanaswaras. Purandaradasa's "Smariso sarvada" (Sriranjini) was sung with a brief ragaalapana. An expert singer could be identified in the elaboration of Andholika raga for "Ragasudharasa". Ramamani packed the raga Ramamani dealt with Poorvi Kalyani with aplomb for "Meenakshi me mudam". Neraval at "Madhurapuri nilaye" was tagged with a strong laya based swaravinyasa.* * *Consistent and purposeful efforts, however, are bound to bring any aspirants closer and closer to perfection. And another significant advance was marked by an astounding recital by flautist T.R. Srinath during the above festival. In the exquisite company of Dr. Natarajamurthy (violin), Ramanujam (mridanga) and Ramesh (morsing), Srinath began with the Kambhoji ata tala varna which gave the audience a foretaste of things to come in the integrated exercise projected in the concert. There was dignity and decorum in the recital. He came up with some exquisite elucidations. Without succumbing to temptations of instrumental gimmickry, he trod the royal path of classicism and tradition. But yet he could highlight his merit and mastery over the instrument and laya. "Gananayakam" (Poornashadja), "Chinnanadina" (Kalanidhi), "Enta muddo" (Bindumalini), "Sharavanabhava" (Pashupatipriya) made it a succinct recital.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/17/stories/2006111701850300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/17/images/2006111701850301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VASTOUNDING An integrated effort by T.R. Srinath
p14
ss.