(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA celebration of melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe fourth and sixth evenings of the week-long fete of Visakha Music Academy featured vocal recitals by Malladi brothers Sriram Prasad and Ravikumar and Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan respectively.The Malladi brothers were accompanied by Embar Kannan on the violin, Neyveli Narayanan on the mridangam, and B.S. Purushothaman on kanjira. The vocal duo felicitously covered little over two octaves, and simulated a veritable version of their guru, Nedunuri Krishna Murty. Chosen by the academy for the presentation of Bharata Ratna late M.S. Subbulakshmi Puraskar instituted by it, they auspiciously received it from the hands of their guru.Notwithstanding lack of signs of zeal for innovation, the duo regaled all alike in the auditorium. Otherwise they could have made their recital a real tribute to Neduruni, who is known for making his recitals refreshing by incorporating scholarly improvisations instantly on the stage. The highlights of the recital were the expansive expatiations of Bhajare of Dikshitar (Kalyani) and a composition of Syama Sastry (Todi), adorning the swarakalpana with erudite gathibhedam.T.N. Seshagopalan's concert took place in the expert company of Akashvani staff artistes M. Sreenivasa Narasimha Murty on violin and V.V. Ramana Murty on mridangam. Seshagopalan enthralled the audience, exhibiting scholarly innovations with the finesse of a rare genius and felicitously covering a range of more than two-and-a-half octaves.His choice itself formed a testing ground of his mettle for exalted display of erudition. It was comprised of Atataala varnam in Reethigowla, exquisite elaboration of Anandanatanam of Dikshitar (Kedaram in misrachaapu), similar expositions of Bhuvini Daasudani (Sreeranjani) and Thalli ninnu (Kalyani) adorned with adorable alapana, and then shifting into Suddha Dhanyasi by charmingly adopting the grahabhedam technique and swaram with gathibhedam. Ramana Murty at this stage executed an eruditely structured thani while Narasimha Murty enhanced the splendour.An elaborate regamalika constituted of as many as 14 ragas, followed by a slokam and thillana in Sindhubhairavi, provided the grand finale. Earlier in the evening, the academy conferred its title Sangeetha Kalaasagara on Seshagopalan.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/11/stories/2009121150230200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/11/images/2009121150230202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMalladi brothers.
p14
ss.