(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFitting tribute
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Sadguru Sadashiva Brahmendra, a sage who lived in the 18th century, was an Avadhootha who had renounced the world. He was a supreme bhakta, a great yogi and possessed knowledge of the ultimate truth. Only 33 of his krithis  -   each of them a devotional and musical pearl  -   are available now.Sri Sadashiva Bharmendra Seva Trust of Nerur had done well to documentthe available 33 krithis in a set of two CDs under the music direction of Nagarathan Sadashiva. These krithis are rendered melodiously by vocalist B. Srikar and his sister Savitha Narasinga Rao. Sadashiva Brahemendra is eulogised in 45 shlokas by Sri Narasimha Bharathi Swamiji, the former head of the Sringeri Math. Noted singer R. K. Padmanabha sings the shlokas in different ragas in another CD with an introduction by renowned scholar Dr. Mathur Krishnamurthy.Rangapriya Swami released the CDs and books authored by T. P. Vinayakarao on the life and works of Sadashiva Brahemendra in a traditional function at Sri Rama Mandira, N. R. Colony. Harshananda Swamiji of Sri Ramakrishna Math and scholar Seshachala Sharma were also present. The release function was prefaced by a neat and tidy vocal duet by Savitha Narasinga Rao and B. Srikar. Blessed with matching voices and manodharma, the duet succeeded in bringing out the essence of Sadashiva Brahmendra's krithis. Ably accompanied by Pavan Sughosh (violin) and seasoned mridangist H. S. Sudheendra, the duo did full justice to the inherent bhava as they have done in the CDs. Vidyapeetha Srinivasamurthy, who organised the programme, spoke of the background of "Tunga tarange Gange" in Kuntalavarali . The raga bhava and the sahitya bhava had an artistic confluence in the singing. Another highlight of their duet was "Broohi Mukundethi" set to Kuranji raga.*****Inspired by the great success of holding the first ever "Haridasa Sahitya Sambhrama" Nadajyothi Sri Thyagarajaswamy Bhajana Sabha with active support from Malleshwaram Arya Vysya Sangha held the second Haridasa Sahitya Sambhrama festival for two days in the Ravishankar auditorium of Sri Kannika Parameshwari Temple, Malleshwaram. The Sabha deserves to be commended for highlighting the life and contributions of lesser-known Haridasas. Police officer Dr. D. V. Guruprasad inaugurated the festival. Vocalist Srikantham Nagendra Sastry read out Dr. Srikanthan's paper on "Indian Cultural heritage and Hindu Dharma."Srikantan also took the audience to dizzy heights with his singing of "Harinaama jihveyallirabeku" (Kamavardhini), "Summane baruvude mukthi" (Anandabhairavi with a succinct alapana), "Echcharike bhagya yaarigoo sthiravalla" (Mohana), "Drishti ninna paadadalli" (Arabhi, trishra aditala) and "Dharmave jayavemba" with emotional and lyrical intensity.*****Seasoned singer S. Shankar regaled the audience with his rendition of compositions by Mahipathidasa. Supported well by B. Raghuram (violin), Shivu (mridanga) and Srishyla (ghata), Shankar brought to the fore the elegance of krithis like "Namma daivaneethanu," "Namba baarade," "Deva banda," "Sharanu Sharade," "Nanda kanda baa" et al. His vilamba kaala singing struck the right chord in the audience.An erudite speaker and scholar and also MLC, Y. S. V. Datta provided a befitting finale to the two-day festival with his thought-provoking valedictory address. He made spontaneous references to various Haridasas and Sharanas in his speech.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/25/stories/2006082502390300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/25/images/2006082502390301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDOCUMENTATION  Sadashiva Brahmendra's 33 kritis were released in a set of two CDs
p14
ss.