(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSeamless flow of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANJANI GOVIND"I never thought I would be part of this `Carnatic-Hindustani-Western' amalgam. This bold experimentation is the result of Rajhesh Vaidhya's innovative persona," said playback singer Karthik, sharing the stage for Hindustani expositions with the fusion-loving  Rajhesh for `Temptations,' at the Music Academy this past weekend. They were brought together for a cause by  Gnyan Prabodh. The educational trust is a  non-profit organisation that sponsors  deserving children and the aim is to bring  down the number of school dropouts.Well-planned showTen energetic youngsters  occupied the traditionally done-up pillared stage and showcased a well-planned, neatly designed fusion show conceived by Rajhesh Vaidhya. Alone and together what the musicians offered was aural pleasure.  And it was something new for  the fans of Karthik. They enjoyed his  classical alaap-and-swar as much as they relish his film songs.Karukurichi Mohana Raman (mridangam), D. Chandrajit (tabla), N. Subramanyam (ghatam), Shankar (drums & percussion), Sriram Ramesh (rhythm pad), Navneeth Sundar and Harini (keyboard) and A.R. Anand (electric guitar) were the other participants.After a brief invocation, the keyboard brought in effects of rippling water and gushing stream with  Rajhesh  unfolding Charukesi in several moods on his veena. Karthik dealt with the characteristic swar-phrases of the raag and  draped it so well  in the Hindustani garb with a Bandish that gave ample room for the tabla to bring in the required flavour. The piece stood out, coming as it did  soon after a fast round of contemporary rhythm.Fusion shows generally suffer from poor time management. Thanks to the so-called  `creativity on stage' factor,  some members of the ensemble  have endless sessions  while the others have to be content with brief spells.  This is where `Temptations' scored, with every musician  performing within a time frame. The three streams merged smoothly, the pre-worked phrases serving as links.Raag Bahaar was chosen to bring alive the spontaneity of waves and the inherent rhythm  in  their rise and fall.  With the percussionists providing a resonant start,  Rajhesh and Karthik explored the avenue, enjoying themselves in the process.  The raag that also captures  the ecstasy of blossom saw  Archana, Ashwini and Shailaja presenting a dance in contemporary style.The  love of a child found melodic expressions in an interesting Dharmavati-Madhuvanti combo. "The two sound similar but the latter slides without the rishabham," explained Rajhesh before showing the nuances  through  the lilting lyric "Kandanaal Mudalaai Kaadhal Perugudadi," which incidentally was also a light-and-music synchronised melody.The  stringed instruments tweaked in rock style and the electric guitar vibrated for that jazz touch.  The mridangam, tabla and ghatam came together.  The blistering notes from Rajhesh's amplified strings gradually mellowed to pick up  "Shankara" in soft Lalitha...  a tribute that every musician on stage paid   to the Sage of Kanchi.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033102520400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033102520401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPERFECT UNDERSTANDING: Rajhesh Vaidhya (left) and Karthik.  Photo: R. Shivaji Rao.
p14
ss.