(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VModified with melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VDR. KRISHNA Raghavendra is representative of an entire generation that was inspired by the music of the 1960s and 1970s. This bio-physicist by training is deeply rooted in the Carnatic tradition but equally disposed to assimilate new ideas. The magic of the new-age music unfolds before you as he plucks away at the strings of the veena with a plethora of electronic instruments.Classical pop is perhaps an apt appellation to describe the uniquely global character of his musical imagination that spans nearly 15 years. Productions from his foundation, RARE (Raga And Rhythm Ensemble), have earned an enviable reputation in the contemporary world fusion music genre.The presence of Indian classical music on the world fusion scene is of course formidable. Indeed, Ancient Future (AF), the first ever world fusion music band, had on its original line up, such names as Phil Fong who played the sarod, Benjy Wertheimer the tabla and Mathew Montfort the sitar.The last two had studied Hindustani music with Ravi Shankar and were for a time under Baba Alaudin. It is also no coincidence that AF's current record label should have taken after Narada, the Indian mythological figure. Strong influences as these lead to a turning point in Raghavendra's career and his research in tobacco mosaic virus.He was under the rigorous tutelage of H. S. Krishnamurthy, an exponent of the Mysore style of playing the veena, for seven years. His first performance in Bangalore, way back in the 1950s, was on American Independence Day, significant because that was the country he would adopt in the future. Maestros G. Chittibabu, S. Balachandar and Emani Sankara Sastri were profound influences in the evolution of Raghavendra's individual approach. The winds of world fusion would eventually catch up with him in the 1990s at Connecticut, U.S.The flavour of Raghavendra's music is quintessentially contemporary melody and rhythm, produced through a blend of traditional and modern instruments. The special tonal quality of his veena is improvised through a combination of transfuser and electric pick up systems.The late Narasinga Rao (of Bangalore) customised the instrument to be detachable and Steve Morrill of Boston developed the fingerboard, modified the bridge and worked on sound amplification.Many of his nearly ten albums have received impressive reviews in the world's leading music magazines, revealing the sheer variety and scope of Raghavendra's works. His creative compositions have evolved from explorations into the bhakti tradition to more temporal themes in recent years. The earliest albums, `Nadasudha' and `Ragasudha' are inspired by Purandaradasa, Kabir and Tyagaraja. `Shiva Ganga,' `River Yamuna' and `Great Train Journey' harmonise bhakti with fusion music.The last of these features the alto sax luminary Charlie Mariano prominently. Conversely, Raghavendra's veena is a highlight of Mariano's albums, `Bangalore' and `Sketches of Bangalore.' Tracks from River Yamuna have also been featured in the renowned `Big Bang' series of albums.`Rare Pulse' features among others the Grammy Award-winning frame drummer Glen Velez and Jamey Haddad, an international percussionist.`Tryst with Destiny' is Raghavendra's imaginative dialogue with Nature. `Shades of Love' and `Time and Tide,' expected to be released by this year-end explore equally fascinating themes says Raghavendra.GARIMELLA SUBRAMANIAMBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/03/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/03/11/stories/2005031100220200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/03/11/images/2005031100220201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKrishna Raghavendra ... classical pop on the veena.
p14
ss.