(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSymphony for a political film
p3
sVnews
p4
VSHYAMA RAJAGOPALMAKING MUSIC: Ramesh Narayan working on the music for `Arunam.'Hindustani musician Ramesh Narayan is doing an Ilayaraja. He has written a symphony for the film `Arunam,' to be directed by Vinod Mankara.The desolation of a true communist in the present era is what `Arunam' is all about. According to Narayan, Illayaraja is the only other Indian music composer to have composed a symphony as film music here.A symphonyRamesh Narayan has come up with a piece, which has been recorded with a 100-piece orchestration. Digital technology has made it possible to record it piece by piece using 65 violins, 10 cellos, five double bass and 20 violas. "Madhu Balakrishnan sang his solo,Hridaya akashathil... after eight hours of rehearsal," says Narayan. The song is in three octaves, reminiscent of old times. According to Narayan, the three octaves have been used to show Nature's beauty. The beauty of the symphony will not only be limited to the music but is also expected to be translated to the visual aspect of the film. Sujatha has sung a fully classical-based rendition for the first time in a film, says Narayan. The songArunam Nin Mukham Sandhyehas been composed in a rare Hindustani raga called Guni Kauns. Jayachandran and Sujatha's duet,Oru nokkil ellam paranju, is another melodious number featured in the film. Two solo songs by Madhu Balakrishnan and Sujatha will form the film's body.The symphony also has a number of other singers  like Biju Narayanan, Vidhu Prathap, Sudeep Kumar, Jyothsana, Gayathri, Sayanora, Sheelamani, Hema Narayan.The recording was done the old fashioned way. "Week-long rehearsals preceded recording the song in a straight take, without much punching. It was the director's idea to record the song with such elaborate orchestra. While the technology allows one to compose a song without such big orchestration, we thought it would be good to get the music recorded differently" says Narayan. Berni, the assistant music director and Kannan, the keyboard artist helped Narayan in getting the symphony ready. The lyrics play an important part in the song's composition, so important that the poet O.N.V. Kurup, realising the mood of the film, even rewrote a few lines, according to Vinod Mankara.Mankara brings back on reel the socio-political change that swept the State in the Fifties and Sixties. The film is, in a way, a sharp comment on large-scale money laundering that is going on in contemporary politics &#151;   a situation that has made most of old timers virtually retire from active politics.  Music and the cultural ethos of the State was part of communist movement in the State.The story of Arunam is taken from Sudhakaran Ramanthali's `Arangozhiyunna Achyutan,' which got the Uroob Award for 2003.  Although Mankara is a veteran documentary filmmaker, this is his first feature film. He says that the film's protagonist is based on a real person. The protagonist's interest in music lures him to politics and also causes upheavals in his relationships. The film explores the various relationships &#151;  through music.According to Mankara, the concept of `Ardhanareeshwara' is explored through music.  Finally, the relationship of the protagonist and his music takes the film towards its conclusion. Manoj K. Jayan, Kavya Madhavan, Geethu Mohandas, Vineeth, Jagathy Sreekumar and Cochin Haneefa  form the cast of the movie.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041401560300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.