(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDevotion wins the day
p3
sVnews
p4
VDr Vageesh, Deputy Director of Programmes, AIR, gave a vocal concert under the auspices of Kalasagaram last week. It was a concert away from the normal perception in the sense that the format and presentation was rather defiant. Vageesh is a scholar, a thinker and an originator. The presentation goes with the impromptu philosophy, the acceptance of which is also abrupt and variable. Holistically, the concert had classicism and neoclassicism combined, resulting in a new and informal movement, emphasising the need for a change in view and opinion, and a need for an alternative. If a part of the concert was in keeping with the tradition, it more often gave place to singular choice of what is considered as abhang, a practice where the lyric and its importance gains magnitude at the cost of rhythmic delight, and to some extent, melodic enchantment. Bhakti, or devotion, gains elation and persuades people to passion. In essence, that part of the programme was better received on the day. Even common songs gain a new dimension, irrespective of their acceptance.The varnam inmalayamauthamwas inimitable.Hamsavinodiniwas presented with elaborate alapana, which made an academic impact.Deva devainDanyasiwas again a scholastic depiction. The alapana ofBilahariwas inspiring; this was coupled with a composition ofChitharanjan. In offeringsogasujudatharaminKannadagowla,Vageesh sang all thecharanasof the krithis, which is normally missed by many; in so doing, he brought forth their lyrical beauty.The concert took an uncanny turn when the item,Sri Rama Ni Nama, started; it became highly emotive and poetic, singing full throttle at the higher octave with little import to rhythm. It was at this point where the element of abhang was overplayed; considerable time was gone in this needless endeavour, although it pleased a large section of the lay audience.Vageesh, if he desires to, can confine himself to the traditional style of a concert, as he did in his exercise of RTP in todi. Unwittingly, he stayed at the notedaivathamin almost every raga he indulged in, which put in  an aching element for the listener. In terms of neraval, an important component of a concert, there was little or none, holistically. His control inswarakalpanais exhilarating and engaging. Thethanamin RTP was well-designed and the pallvai was set tokhanda jati thriputa thalam. Yet, another interesting item in the concert was one of his won compositions in the rare Raga Varapu.Surya Dipti of AIR, who played on the violin, was richly contributive; the facet of appreciation is the nada he produces; it is rich and captivating. While Arvind is a richly acknowledged mridangam player, his contribution on the day was limited because of the format and style of the concert. Nevertheless, his thani was affluent in  imagination.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/08/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/08/22/stories/2008082250550300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/08/22/images/2008082250550301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSpiritual toneDr. Vageesh at a performance.
p14
ss.