(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMildly satisfactory
p3
sVnews
p4
VVocal concert of Karnataka Brothers from Chennai (Vidwans Shashikiran and Ganesh) at the annual music festival of Sri Yoganarasimha Swamy Temple complex, Vijayanagar, Mysore, was a thrilling experience. However, the undue haste in rendition came in the way of total enjoyment. The auspicious beginning with Annamacharya's composition "Sriman Narayana" followed by Dixitar's "Vatapi Ganapatim" in raga Hamsadhwani and Sri Tyagaraja's pancharatna "Endaro Mahanubhavulu" were impressive selections for the venue. However, the ethos of raga bhava in "Jaya Jaya Janaki Natha" and "Needu Mahima" were inadequate to the sublime grandeur of the ragas. "Bhavanuta" of Tyagaraja in raga Mohana gave the much-desired break to concert. The succinct svaraprastara and the choice of compositions twisted the concert to a semi-classical performance. Vidwan M.S. Govindaswamy on violin and Vidwan Sainath on mridanga with Chandrasekar on ghata formed the team of the concert.Mixed bagThe regular monthly concerts at Veene Seshanna Bhavana under the aegis of Ganabharati provides opportunities to artistes that would equally expand the taste of the audience and to develop their interest for classical music. Vidushi Meera's vocal concert at this venue accompanied by Kumari Aditi on violin and R. S. Prasad on mridanga had all the components of classical music. The choice of ragas like Lalitha ("Hiranmayim Lakshmi" of Dixitar) Hamsanadam ("Bantu Reethi" of Tyagaraja), and Shanmukhapriya in triputatala ("Abhimanamutho" of Mysore Vasudevacharya) was the highlight of the concert. However, the concert took an appreciable turn from delineation of Shanmukhapriya and the earlier renditions were complacent. Coming from the traditional music lineage the artiste's involvement seemed inadequate for the absolute success of the performance that concluded a few compositions of dasa-sahitya ("Idu baghya idu baghya" and "Venkatesha Daya Madoo").B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/09/stories/2006060902840300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/09/images/2006060902840301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINADEQUATE The concert by Karnataka Brothers could have been more leisurely
p14
ss.