(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe feast from Kalasagaram
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 41st Annual Festival of Kalasagaram started with the usual pomp and pageantry. The spectacle of novelty contained only in artificial fastidiousness, tedious repetitions of common items or at best, exhibited an avatar of known images, and gave a new appearance to truth only by some slight contrast of gear and decoration. When the concert no sooner opens, than every listener knows how it will conclude; the first song echoes the last. The interests and passions, the virtues and vices of concerts, have been diversified, only by unessential and casual manipulations, and we must, therefore, expect pictures of the same person, as it were, drawn in different periods of his life. Yet it is not wholly without meaning and merit; Anantharaman (violin) T.M. Krishna, Gayathri Venkataraghavan, Rajani and Gayathri, Sikkili Gurucharan (all vocal), Sashank (flute), were the artistes chosen. The programme also included two Tamil dramas and a dance piece.The Inaugural day was reserved for doyen Anantharaman whose violin playing is filled with image, at once splendid and pleasing, and is elevated with grandeur of melody. There is more art in him than the audience can deduce. He has his claim to veneration, by virtue of the extent of his knowledge and greatness of design. He was accompanied by his two sons Sundareswaran and Krishnaswamy, who are as skilled as the father. In their playing many thoughts present themselves, enlightened and well connected; but one who expects much is likely be often disappointed; for one reason, the concert started very late and the artiste could not have room for much. The highlight of the concert was the raga Hamirkalyani followed by the krithiPaimalarangapathe; the raga has the background of Hindustani melody and Anantharaman brought out the graces of Hindustani style. The other items like thevarnamintodi,varanamukhavain Hamsadwani etc. went as routine.Exquisite settings, superb lighting, colourful costumes under the influence of beam and shadow-- in short, the entire stagecraft, was the highlight of the dance balletSri Ramadasa Charithamby Nrithyakalasagara Sri Ramanatakam under the guidance of Ramaswamy and Manjula Ramaswamy.Manjula Ramaswamy contributed the excellent nattuvangam. The spellbinding tango was built upon the traditional story of King Tanishah, who mistakenly puts his appointee, collector Bopanna for alleged misappropriation of revenue, into prison for 12 years and finally releases him under the divine instruction of Sri Rama. The story was presented with intense verve, deep relevance and vivid emotion. The main characters, king Tanishah, played by Ramya, and Bopanna, by Neha respectively were outstanding.It was one of the best episodes presented in recant years. Perhaps, the characters were too many, as also the scenes and the trying intervals. The most deprecating reality was the shattering and highly melodramatic narration of the event at regular intervals.T.M. Krishna wears out his days and nights in perpetual research and solitary meditation, sharpens his elocution, adds to his wisdom; and when he comes on to the platform, he is overloaded with his own notions; adapting himself to the various degrees of intellect; he gratifies the pride of airy tantrums with an easy victory .The trick of the trade is dexterous blend of fragments of other styles particularly that of Semmangudi. The flirtation of his personality and a passionate desire to generate applause are understandably the vulnerable traits, as is so with any performing artiste; there is nothing wrong in it. Be italapana, orswarakalpana, his calculated exercise to build up cadence and animation in needlessly extending thesangathis, has become too old a trick. These features were too evident in the presentation of the krithiThyagaraja Yogavaibhavamin Aananda Bhairavi.Theneravalandswarakalpanaat the chosen place has never been resorted to; it was an elaborate exercise. Shakarabharana occupied the epicenter of the concert.The raga as well as thekrithi swara ragasudhaandneraval, all were at a pleasant time measure, although the usual work out of crescendo building was patently expected and unreservedly resorted to.One of the pleasing contributions was the rare composition of Shyamasastry in the raga Kalgada. Sriramkumar on the violin did not fail in adding to the good humour and mysteries of the vocalist. Narayanan on the mridangam was rather tame in accompaniment but when left withthani, proved an inspiring episode.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/11/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/11/28/stories/2008112850240300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/11/28/images/2008112850240302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHONOURED COMPANY Kalasagaram also felicitated B.R.C. Iyengar for his long and valued contribution to the cause of music.
p14
ss.