(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTapping the feet, kissing the soul
p3
sVnews
p4
VPrem Joshua, a German musician who is known to many because of his nomination in the BBC's prestigious "World Music Listener's Award", can be heard in India now. Music Today in association with Choice Hotels, India and McDowell's Signature  unveiled another journey of his connection to India at The Qutub Hotel in New Delhi this past week.Prem Joshua has been interacting with musicians from India and Europe to celebrate the sounds and rhythms from the East and the East and creating an exciting blend of world music. His bestsellers include Hamsafar, Desert Visions, Secret of the Wind, Sky Kisses Earth and Mudra.After the magnificent success of these albums, Music Today released anotherfusion album called Dance of Shakti by the multi-faceted musician. This album is a spiritual journey interlaced in a pattern of groovy music. Prem Joshua has created a beautiful melange of eastern and western musical influences to express the beauty and mysticism of Shakti, a form of Goddess Durga.Spiritual Experience`Water Down The Ganges' is his another spiritual experience. The album is a musical odyssey down the inner Ganges of the being. A spiritual blend of world music and wounds, the album brings together diverse instruments like sitar, bamboo flute, saxaphone and the tabla in an ensemble.His connection with the Osho Commune Centre has led him to make several trips to India to discover new sounds and sights of the country he loves so much. The musical works have been accepted and are used in the Osho Cummune as it reflects peace and positive vibes. In 1990, Prem came together with kora player Ravi and other international musicians to form the band "Terra Incognita". The band explores and creates a mew synthesis in sound that takes beyond the borders of both East and West.Prem Joshua and his band are a unique phenomenon in the field of World Music, exploring and creating a new synthesis in sound that takes beyond the borders of both East and West.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012001930100.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.