(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLasting notes on rocky terrain
p3
sVnews
p4
VM. AHIRAJIt was indeed a cultural treat with over three lakh connoisseurs congregating at the world famous Hampi, the erstwhile seat of Vijayanagar empire, to witness the Hampi Utsav &#151;  2005, a three-day mega cultural extravaganza of dance, drama and music.The festival was as usual, a blend of folk and classical music, drama, art, literature and history. Artistes of national and international repute, were among the over 1,000 artistes invited to perform at this historic venue. Cultural troupes from as far as Nepal, Srilanka, and Ujbekistan came with exciting performances.It was renowned playback singer S.P. Balasubramanyam who stole the show during the utsav. He mesmerised a mammoth crowd of over 50,000, which is also the first as far as Hampi Utsav is concerned, ever since it was revived in 1995. He rendered popular and melodious Kannada film songs for nearly two hours. He sang "Noorondu nenapu yedeyaaladinda" recalling the moments he spent in Hampi around 35 years ago.Hindustani classical musicians Ajoy Chakraborty, Arti Anklikar Tikekar, Vasundhara Komkali and Kalapini (wife and daughter of the music maestro late Kumar Gandharva), Srinivas Joshi, (son of Pandit Bhimsen Joshi), Jayateerth Mevundi, Shailesh Bhagawat (shehnai) were some among the galaxy of stars present apart from the mandolin maestro U. Srinivas, Carnatic vocalist Kurudi Venkannachar. They regaled the audience by exhibiting their mastery and command over music.Dances by well-known artistes including Madhavi Mudugal and Ranjana Gohar (Oddissi), Sridevi Unni and Usha Datar (Mohiniattam), Prathibha Prahlad (Bharatnatya), ballet by Suma Vijay and students of the Natya Institute of Kathak and Choreography, were not only colourful but also enthralled the audience.Though there was a variety of musical performances during these three days, dramas staged by both amateur and professional groups, have not lost its popularity and were successful in attracting a large number. A good gathering, undaunted by the cold winds, witnessedRakta Ratrimythological drama, presented by Mahadevatatha Kalasangha, Handyal, lasted till early hours in the morning.Surya Shikari, Court Marshall, Jalagara, Dishantar, Ghasiram Kotwal, were among other dramas presented at the utsav.In all, there were six stages set at various places in Hampi. The organisers had taken care to ensure that top class artistes gave their programmes at all the stages. However, Bellary Raghava Vedike and the Gangadevi Vedike, were almost exclusive for dramas and women artistes respectively.As usual, the Vijayanagar Vaibhava, a light and sound programme by the Song and Drama Division of the Union Ministry of Information, continued to be a major attraction.Apart from these, the colourful procession by the folk artistes, dressed in their traditional attire, was taken out on the concluding day. The illumination of the rocky terrain and the fireworks, was a great source of entertainment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/11/stories/2005111104510400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/11/images/2005111104510401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINSPIRING Hindustani vocalist Vasundhara Komkali, wife of the extraordinary musician Kumar Gandharva, gave a stunning performance
p14
ss.