(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSublime, smooth and serene
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Lalitha Sahasranama Sthothram was imparted to Sage Agasthya by the Lord of Knowledge and Wisdom, Hayagreeva. This Sanskrit namavali on Devi forms an integral part of the Brahmanda Purana, and chanting of these divine names of Sri Lalitha or merely listening to the chant would help one to shed ego and vain glory, and raise the quality of his life to sublime, tranquil levels.Dr. Balamurali Krishna's exclusive turf is devotional presentation. In this album his clear enunciation, smooth, serene lyrical and musical expression with the absolute co-operation of his thrice-blessed voice, and effortless, involved articulation leaves the listener in a state of spiritual bliss. The alchemy of melody and bhakti inspires a stimulating testimony to the efficacy of Sri Lalitha Sahasranama.Ten Tamil songs on Karpaga Vinayaka, the presiding deity in the temple at Sonari, Jamshedpur composed by Susila Subramanian form the agenda for this volume. Various artistes have sung the songs with reasonable involvement and emotion. The tunes are pleasing and have been set by A.N.Sasim. A labour of love for the author and the participating artistes.Songs of AndalSubhashree Ramachandran, the daughter of Trichur Ramachandran and Charumathi, has sung the Thiruppavai hymns of Sri Andal for Kalavardhanis. The songs of Andal have an immortal stature and Ariyakkudi Ramanuja Iyengar's tuning of the lyrics have a timeless appeal. Shubhashree's rendering does merit appreciation. Her facile voice very similar to that of Charumathi's is ideally suited to this genre of music.T.V. Sundaravalli, a reputed exponent of Arunagirinathar's Tiruppugazh songs, has sung 15 compositions extolling Subrahmanya at Kandha Kottam. K. Bhavya, the artiste's daughter, has provided vocal support.It is to Sundaravalli's credit that the melodies draping the lyrics and tuneful and reposeful. The orchestral background with Melakkaveri Thiagarajan on the violin, Neyveli Skanda Subramaniam on the mridangam, Sai Narasimhan on the flute and A.S. Krishnan on the morsing without being intrusive blends with the mainstream of the music effectively.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/05/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/05/04/stories/2007050401850500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/05/04/images/2007050401850503.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSPIRITUAL BLISS: Tuneful melodies.
p14
ss.