(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImaginative flights
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn Carnatic music, Avadhana Pallavi is an important aspect of manodharma sangeetha or musical imagination. Avadhana means concentration. In Avadhana Pallavi, different talas are handled simultaneously. Besides, the right hand is waved in the air and head is moved either ways in counting the akshara kaala of the tala. Veteran singer Pallavi Chandrappa was renowned for the rendition of such Avadhana Pallavis. He had dedicated his life to the popularisation of this form. His son Pallavi C. Varadaraj has successfully inherited the art of Avadhana Pallavi. Varadaraj deserves to be commended not only for this but also for arranging an annual programme in memory of his father.The 15th anniversary programme was held at Sri Kannika Parameshwari Temple, Malleshwaram under the aegis of Pallavi Gana Sabha. Veteran veena artiste Shanthi Rao was felicitated on the occasion with the title of Gana Kala Chandra. Varadaraj presented a lecture-demonstration on Avadhana Pallavi. He proved to be a worthy son of an accomplished father. Though without any rehearsal, the able accompanists Dr. Natarajamurthy (violin) and S.V.Giridhar (mridanga) rose to the occasion in enriching the programme.Varadaraj negotiated with trishra jhampe (mishra gathi laghu, trishra gathi anu drutha and druta) on the right hand and trishra roopaka (sankeerna drutha and chaturashra laghu) sooladi tala on the left hand. Rightly stressing on the delineation of the pallavi line "Paalimchu Kamakshi sadaa maravakave", he sang a succinct raga and tana in Kharaharapriya. It was authentic with kaala and gathi bedhas. Some of the korvais and patterns were intricate too. He took care of the bhaava also. The elaboration of the pallavi was ornamented with ragamalika swaras comprising Madhyamavathi, Hamsadhwani, Hindola, Mohana and Todi ragas.*****This was followed by a pleasing veena recital by Shanthi Rao. Deftly supported by J.V. Krishnamurthy Achar (mridanga) and R. Nagaraj (ghata), Shanthi paid her tribute to her guru Chandrappa by rendering some of the intricate laya aspects that she had learnt from him. She began her short recital with "Maha Ganapathim" (Nata raga, with chittai and kalpana swaras). "Pahi maam Sri Rajarajeshwari" (Janaranjani), "Endaro Mahanubhavulu" (Sri) and the detailed treatment of Kharaharapriya for a Thyagaraja krithi glowed with her artistry and expertise.*****Seetha Sathyanarayana is an unassuming artiste. She is endowed with an impressive voice and scholarship. She knows well to extract the most positive results out of them. Her vocal recital at Sri Avani Sringeri Math, Mahalakshmipuram under the aegis of Sri Vidyaranya Bharathi Sangeetha Sabha. Seetha's manodharma was magnificent. Saveri varna gave a lilting and crisp start to the concert. "Maha Ganapathim" was endearing with chittaiswaras and kalpanaswaras. She sang "Himagiri tanaye" (Shuddha Dhanyasi), "Nammamma Sharade" (Tillang) and "Paalisemma muddhu Sharade" (Kalyani) with bhava and artistry. Singer Seetha effectively questioned Sri Rama with "Brochevarevarura" (Khamach). "Sri Chakraraja nilaye" in a rare Shivashakthi raga impressed the rasikas. Raga Hamsanada was treated in detail and the krithi "Bantu ritikolu" was beautified with neraval and kalpanaswaras. "Karedare bara baarde" in Swarasammohini raga was appealing. Though one wished for more profundity, the raga, tana and pallavi "Sri Kanthimathim" shone with erudition. C.S. Usha (violin) and Karthik Mani (mridanga) vied for equal honours.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070703010300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070703010301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCOMPLEMENTARY  Pallavi C. Varadaraj placed equal stress on technicality and emotion
p14
ss.