(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn true Mudicondan tradition
p3
sVnews
p4
VBhagyalakshmi Chandrasekhar, a commendable veena artiste, belongs to the honoured tradition of Mudicondan Venkatrama Iyer. The album begins with his lively Varnam in Shanmukhapriya. A Mysore Maharaja kriti in Amruthavauhini with a melodic alapana prelude has the hallmark of quality.Perhaps it would have been more apt to have scheduled this song later in the album since every swara in Amruthavauhini except the Madhyamam is the same as in Shanmukhapriya, the previous raga. The kalpana swaras in Amruthavauhini are precise in terms of rhythmic exactitude and raga lakshana. Kalgada, according to scholars, is a vivadhi scale that sports a Suddha Dhaivatam and Suddha Nishadam. But, some other Patantarams totally ignore the Suddha Dhaivatam, with the result the raga chaya is almost similar to Malayamarutham. The artiste's rendition of Shyama Sastri's ``Parvati ninnu" in Kalgada belongs to the second category.Hamirkalyani invested with pleasing phrases emerges with grace and charm to be followed by Dikshitar's ``Puraharanandana." Kapi is elaborated with refinement, indicative of the Vidushi's subtle musical sensibilities.Creditable interpretationTyagaraja's ``Meevalla" in Khanda Chapu is a creditable interpretation with the sarvalagu swara improvisations being imaginative and the mathematical calculations played with rhythmic exactitude. Vachaspati, the 64th Mela houses Tyagaraja's Kantajudumi and is the main course in the agenda. Its expansion in the various octaves with apposite prayogas reflects the artistic credentials of Bhagyalakshmi. The methodical raga structure based on a solid foundation, and the vivacious Tanam are professional efforts. The kriti is rendered with elan, and the swaras in the Tisra and Chatusra nadais with the stimulating finishing sequence, spell confidence. The efficient percussion ensemble comprises mridangam, ghatam and morsing &#151;  the names of the artistes are not mentioned.  A Purandaradasa hymn in Durga and a mangalam of Bhadrachala Ramadas bring the album to a close. The titles of the songs could have been included in the inlay card as many may be familiar with the raga but not the song.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/16/stories/2005091600220600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.