(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA concert to warm the hearts
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe monthly concert held at Sangeetha Kalaa Samithi are dedicatedto its vice president Perala Lakshmana Rao  ever since he died in 1995. Lakshmana Rao, is a name to reckon with among revered musicologists, litterateurs and proficient flautists who immensely contributed popularising classical music and anicient literature through their talks demonstrative discourses etc., including recitals on flute. His close friend, the veteran mridangist and renowned guru, Vankayala Narasimham proudly recollected the memories of his fruitful association with late Perala, while the secretary of the Samithi V.V. Ramana Murty (Narasimham's son), a comparable artiste on mridangam, recalled the services rendered by Lakshmana Rao in stabilising the Sabha.Highly regarded vocalist B. Indira Kameswara Rao, an "A" grade artiste of AIR and its prestigious staff till she retired on superannuation recently, rendered the recital. Vetaran violinist Ivaturi Vijayeswara Rao along with Vankayala Naradimham and G.G. Ramesh with morsing kept commendable company.Getting off to a wonderful  start from the very beginning  starting withKambhoji Atatalavarnam,charanamsinchaturasramandtrisram. It was followed bytrisraandchaturasra paikaalams, where she created a brilliant atmosphere creating a fine  blend of the nativeragaandlaya bhavamsembedded in the composition. Achieving a  finer blend of classicism and romanticism  more fervently with involvement, she made it a soul-stirring event renderingRaktaganapatimof Dikshitar (Mohana) withswaram,Patti viduva raaduof Tyagaraja (Manjari),Ramam Bhajaof Papanasam Sivam (Sri),Manasaguruguhaof Dikshitar (Anandabhairavi) prefixed withaalapana,Vande SadaaPadmanabhamof Swathi Tirunal (Navarasakannada),Palukavademiraof Mysore Vasudevachar (Devamanohari) andIntasoukhyamani(Kapi) before she  elaboratedRamaneevaadukonduvo konavoof Thyagaraja (Kalyani). Thethanireplete with exercises inchaturasram,trisramandkhandamled by Narasimham, was rendered over all in a soul-fulfilling manner. The tailpiece of aKshetrayya padaminHusseni,Tarangamof Narayanateertha inBehagand aDharmapuri JavaliinKhamasprovided a sublime finale.A. RAMALINGA SASTRYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070701490200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070701490201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLILTING TIME B. Indira Kameswara Rao lets herself go.
p14
ss.