(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic for the soul
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe three-day Dasara Music Festival jointly organised by Swarajhari of Vijayawada and Ramanama Sankeertana Sangham at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram provided sumptuous music. The festival was inaugurated by T. S. Ramachandra Rao, president of Swarajhari. The concerts started with a melodious veena recital by Ayyagari Satyaprasad, a staff member of Government Music College, Rajahmundry. Satya Prasad belongs to the famous Vizianagaram tradition.Starting withBhairavi Atatala varnam, Satyaprasad followed it withPancharatna keertanain NataJagadananda karaka,Hiranmayeemin Lalitha, Dikshitar&#8217;sSri Gananadham Bhajamyahamin Kanakangi,Raja Raja Poojithein the rare raga Putrika andSangeeta Samrajya Sanchariniin Mohana Kalyani.Prasad took up raga Neetimati for the main item, playing  it with ease and expertise. The item comprised attractive ragamalika, which included the ragas Hemavathi, Mohana, Sriranjani, Shanmukhapriya, Vasanta, Bhageswari and Saveri.Another impressive item wasKamalambamof Dikshitar in Ananda Bhairavi. Prasad closed the concert with atillanain Behag and Bhajagovindaslokams. N. S. Kalyanaraman, mridang player, gave fine support to Satya Prasad.The second day&#8217;s vocal concert by D. Kartika Anagha was highly appreciated by the audience. As a child prodigy, Anagha received the prestigious Balasri award from the President of India for creative and innovative excellence.Even at the age of four, Anagha could sing any raga if given thearohanaandavarohanaof the raga. She is also blessed with a mellifluous voice and neat traditional style. She received her training from M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murthy, Neela Ramagopal and Prof. T. R. Subramanyam. At present, Anagha is under the tutelage of Hyderabad brothers Seshachari and Raghavachari. Her concert started withMathe(Khamas) of Muthaiah Bhagavatar.She followed it up withSidhi Vinayakamin Shanmukhapriya,Vanchatonuin Karnaranjani, aDasara padam AdidanoandGnanamosagaradainPoorvi kalyaniwhich was rendered as the sub main item. The main item,Sarojadala Netri, in Sankarabharanam carried finealapana,neravalandswarakalpana.The young and talented vocalist had good support from B. V. Durgabhavani (violin) and K. Sai Giridhar (mridangam).The last day of the festival presented a melodious flute concert by K. V. Ramanujam of Chennai. Ramanujam received his initial training from Syed Pacha Saheb of Gutala and advanced training from renowned flute player K. R. Ganapathi and Prof. S. R. Janakiraman.His breath control,sruthialignment andlayaprecision were admirable.He received many prestigious awards including, Flute Mali Award. His raga delineations, which stood as highlights, wereReetigowla(Jananiof Subbaraya Sastri) andBhairavi(Sariyevvare).Bhairavi keertanawas the main item of the wholesome concert. Ramanujam&#8217;smanodharmamaspects were of high standard.Ampolu Muralikrishna and M. Lakshminarayana Raju gave Ramanujam excellent support on the violin and mridangam, respectively.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/10/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/10/24/stories/2008102450120200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/10/24/images/2008102450120201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTuneful melodiesK.V. Ramanujam.
p14
ss.