(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA melodious recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe inimitable Sanjay Subramaniam presented his fans with the most joyous evening with choicest kritis that showcased his talent and technical prowess. The Kanada varnam ninnu kori unveiled the vibgyor colours that was revealed in their full glory as he delineated one raga after the other. In the Dikshitar kriti Ananda natana in Kedara, he gave us a glimpse of his unique style of presentation wherein the drag on the madyamam in the vilamba kalam lent a sort of grace to the rendition. The kalpana swaras wove like a garland bringing out the raga nuances to the core.The alapana breathed life into the Asaveri which was reproduced by violinist S. Varadarajan in the best of melodies. Sanjay gave a splendid performance with certain swaras during his manodharma to the point of sounding like a playful boy at ease with his medium! But, that's Sanjay sans gimmicks!!The Natakuranji opened in the most tender tones with Kuvalayadala nayana brovave, with the raga and the lyric complementing each other. This adorable raga extolling the beauty of the lord deciphered every inch of the composer's sensitivity. Two songs on Muruga, one in Hindolam (Ma Ramana kumara) and the other va va muruga in Sindhu Bhairavi, were most appreciated as they were popular. The vocalist enhanced the Hindolam with his extensive alapana and lovely flow of swaras. The percussionist (Neyveli Venkatesh) lent a steady rhythm, keeping pace with the musician.The RTP in Bhairavi with an intricate misrachapu ata talam was a Tamil composition, had the brand Sanjay going with it, the moment he began the tanam. The violinist was as vociferous as the vocalist and together they had the audience at their feet. The tala shifted to Adi and so did the pallavi to Sahana, Purvikalyani, Mohana, Atana, and Kaapi defining the ragas through short swaras giving a dimension to the entire rendition. The laya-vinayasam between the mridangist and Trichur Murali on the ghatam was as exciting as one-day cricket match.The poor acoustics at Keyes High School was no compliment to a musician of Sanjay's stature though. The concert was part of the Thyagaraja festival under the aegis of Sri Chandrasekharendra Educational Society.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550360301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn a thrall Sanjay Subramaniam performing in the city.
p14
ss.