(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCharming strokes
p3
sVnews
p4
VWhile still in his 20s, Amjad Ali Khan was widely acknowledged as a maestro in his own right. Youngest son of Ustad Hafiz Ali Khan, who was one of the front-ranking sarod players of the first half of the 20th Century, he was born into a family whose several generations had been playing sarod with distinction. However, Amjad Ali Khan decided to break new ground and, taking a cue from Ustad Vilayat Khan who had already introduced Khayal gayaki in sitar, fashioned a unique style of sarod playing by replicating the vocalisms of Khayal singing on this difficult instrument. When he played long meends, super-fast sapaat taans and various other varieties of complex note combinations, the music world was completely dazzled. He has not looked back ever since and continues to remain one of the most popular classical musicians. His two sons &#8212; Amaan Ali Khan and Ayaan Ali Khan &#8212; have followed in his footsteps and, as a result of rigorous training given by their illustrious father, have over the years emerged as competent sarod players with noticeable talent.Apt choiceLast week, SPIC-MACAY organised a concert of Amjad Ali Khan and his sons in New Delhi as part of its Music in the Park series. First Amaan Ali Khan and Ayaan Ali Khan played together. They made a very apt choice and presented a nicely delineated alap-jod in raga Puriya Dhanashree with remarkable poise. In the same raga, they offered two gat compositions set to dhamar and Teen taal respectively. Being the elder brother, Amaan took a larger share while Ayaan sounded slightly more tuneful. As expected of young musicians, both were eager to display their technical virtuosity and did so with commendable dexterity and joyful exuberance. However, they are yet to evolve their individualistic styles bearing the imprint of their different personalities. It will add to the charm of their music if they pay greater attention to the aesthetic aspect of a performance.Ustad Amjad Ali Khan took the stage after his sons had finished playing. He paid his tribute to Rabindranath Tagore by playing his famous song &#8220;Ekla Chalo Re&#8221;. Its tune sounded very much like Bhatiyali. After the Tagore song, he took up one of the most serene and sombre ragas in the Hindustani classical music repertoire Darbari, said to be the creation of Tansen, one of the nine jewels in the court of Mughal Emperor Akbar. He played a short alap before presenting several compositions. He showed the tirobhav (disappearance) as well as avirbhav (appearance) of several adjacent ragas like Miyan ki Malhar and changed rhythm from Teen taal to Ek taal and then from Ek taal to Teen taal in the course of his presentation, thus displaying a mastery over both tempo and rhythm. He concluded his solo recital with a lilting composition in Zila Kafi, one of his favourite ragas.Earthy charmThis was the point when the two sons joined their father and the trio played together with great gusto to offer a befitting finale to the evening. They chose to play raga Des and weaved together a veritable ragamala (garland of ragas) by offering glimpses of associated ragas such as Tilak Kamod. As the name suggest, Des is a raga born of the indigenous musical traditions with a strong folk flavour. Its sweetness and earthy charm was evident in the performance by the maestro and his worthy sons.Competent tabla accompaniment was provided by Rashid Mustafa, the scion of Farrukhabad gharana. The announcement had said that Fateh Singh Gangani would accompany on the pakhawaj but one saw him playing the tabla instead. It's another matter that his tabla was tuned and sounded like the pakhawaj.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/01/stories/2011040150340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/01/images/2011040150340201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn concert Ustad Amjad Ali Khan flanked by his sons at the event.
p14
ss.