(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe sound of lilting music
p3
sVnews
p4
VCome Vaisakha Suddha Shasthi, the air gets resonantly filled with the rendering of the compositions of Thyagaraja Swamy. They stand considered not only as the largest base of the classical system of music but also universally valued as an epitome of devotion towards Lord Rama. These views were shared by the president of Thyagaraja Aradhana Trust, C.S.N. Raju, and the trust's secretary G.R.K. Prasad (Rambabu) before the commencement of three one-hour recitals of Thyagaraja's compositions. The event was held to celebrate his Jayantotsavam last Monday evening at Kalabharathi, Vishakapatnam. The artistes sung a few rarely heard kritis as well.The first was by K. Lahari (A grade AIR artiste) in the knowledgeable company of M. Neeladri Rao on violin, M. Sridhar on mridangam and M. Suryaprasad on ghatam. She melodiously and expressively rendered Rama Nannu Brovara (Harikambhoji), Yepaniko Janminchithivani (Asaveri), Yedaari sancharinthura (Sruthi Ranjani), Kaligiyuntegada (Keeravani), exquisitely elaborating and concluded with Induka yee thanuvunu saakinanduka (Punnagavarali).The next rendition was by M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murty (AIR staff artiste), well accompanied on violin by his wife (a top grade artiste), Pantula Rama, one of the best few mridangam players, Vankayala Venkata Ramana and morsing by G. Venkatesh. He succinctly but surfacing all expressions of emotions embedded in the lyrical and musical phraseology evocatively rendered Sogasujoodatharama (Kannadagowla), Yintha thaamasamaithe (Saveri), Yemidova balkuma (Saaraga), exquisitely erudite elaboration of Chitra Ratnamaya (Kharaharapriya) and Koluvaiyunnade (Devagandhari). Rama on violin and Ramana on mridangam, particularly in their chances splendidly sustained the tenor and tempo with fervour.Top grade vocalist who is now in demand in erudite circles, Manda Sudharani, in the scholarly soothing company of Maavuduru Satyanarayana Sarma on violin, G. Venkata Rao on mridangam and M. Yedukondalu on ghatam, rendered a professional concert. Starting with Kadalevaadu Kaade (Narayanagowla), briefly elaborating Sundharathara deham (Panthuvarali), Rama Raghukula Jalanidhisoma (Kaapi) and Neevera Raghukula Dhanamu (Begada). Sarma in his turns, especially surfacing the truly endearing and the soul fulfilling blossom of Begada, stood out in the entire celebration. Venkata Rao and Yedukondalu performed well in their turns.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/13/stories/2011051350070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/13/images/2011051350070201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMelodious symphonyManda Sudharani, M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murty, and K. Lahari (left to right).
p14
ss.