(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VArresting recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANEE KUMARUnlike the South Indian Cultural Association's (SICA) regular music concerts, this time around Udayalur Kalyana Raman launched us into abhajan-cum-nama sankeertanaevening which warmed up the literally rain drenched audience at the Bhavan's auditorium. The opening notes sounded like those of aHarikathabut then the trio singers soon went into a series ofguru vandanamstarting withHari Narayana...  Some numbers likeSri Dakshina murthim varadey... . Shambho Sankara Sambha Sadasiva, Guru murthi paadamulay... and aMeera bhajan(More laagi lagan guru charan..) were arresting owing to the inherent lyrical quality and the rippling effect of the verse which was so evident inShambho Sankara. Kalyana Raman's rendition of theMeera bhajan, despite the south Indian intonation, was unique especially, as he  manoeuvred a momentum towards the end of the song which spirals up and unwinds uniformly to a close. Violinist S Sivakumar was melodic to the core in recreating thealapanaor the verse as the song proceeded. His bowing was close to giving a vocal touch to the strings of the violin. Babu Rajasekhar'smridangamwas either too loud (in the beginning ) or just didn't tune in to the singers' voices. The recitation on Kanchi seer, Paramacharya Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi and later the song  -Sadguru charanaaravindam... . was profound.Co-singer S Balasubramaniam was a presence to reckon with. His spirited rendition at times threw the principal singer into oblivion. Pitchumani Bhagavatar, the second co-singer had a melodious but subdued voice. Kalyana Raman'sAshtapadi... Pirye chaarusheelay...  did not take  off despite the singer following a pattern all through thebhajanconcert. Stage rendition ofbhajanshave to have two important ingredients to sway the audience-either a spiritual presence or a charismatic singer and a super mellifluous voice neither of which were in abundance in the main singer. This The concert was held under the joint aegis of the SICA  and Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/23/stories/2005092301770300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.