(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSongs from seven composers
p3
sVnews
p4
VMohan Santhanam, a Carnatic musician,  hails from a musical background as his mother Saraswathi Santhanam was a disciple of the legendary  Mudicondan Venkatrama Iyer, and his aunt and uncle were direct sishyas of the great composer Koteswara Iyer. Mohan is currently under the tutelage of Prof. T.R. Subramaniam,  V.V. Srivatsa and N. Ravikiran. His audio album titled, `Ananda Raagam' comprises seven songs of various vaggeyakaras.The Ata tala varnam in Bhairavi that is allotted a special niche in the repository of Carnatic music, is a composition of Pachmiriyam Adiyappaiah. In the charanam, there is an extra chitta swaram sung before the last one. The correct usage of the two dhaivatams is commendable. Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavatar's `Gam Ganapathe' in tisra gati adi talam with a spate of swaraprastaras has been rendered with no tentativeness, but laced liberally with a bubbling spirit.Conducive for relaxationA composed, calm exposition of Tyagaraja's `Nannu Vidichi' in Ritigowla reflects the quiet dignity and devotional input that raises a conducive atmosphere for relaxation and contemplation. Age-old ragas like Thodi, Khambodi, Sankarabharanam, Bhairavi and so on  have a timeless allure. The artiste's development of Khambodi has enough proficiency to merit a positive assessment &#151;  some of the rough edges would get smoothened in course of time.The violinist, M. Bhuvana, displays a healthy talent that is bound to bloom further with practice and more importantly `kelvi gnanam'. One of the masterpieces of Gopalakrishna Bharati, `Thiruvadi Saranam' that received an immortal stature with the melting musical expression of Musiri Subramania Iyer is a sincere effort, but the singer should take care to avoid faulty diction. Instead of pronouncing `Marupadiyum,' as such, he repeatedly sings the word as `Marapadiyum', and this causes some listening discomfort.The niraval and swaras by the vocalist with the support of the accompanists are quite professional. B. Ananthakrishnan on the mridangam, a `chela' of the late Bhaskara Kurup and Guru Karaikudi Mani, exhibits his percussive skills convincingly in his adi tala thani avartanam. The pleasant lighter end pieces are `Maruthiyai' in Behag by V.V. Srivatsa, `Sonnadai Seithida' arguably attributed to Mayuram Viswanatha Sastri, and the Ragesri tillana of Lalgudi Jayaraman.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/04/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/04/20/stories/2007042000110600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.