(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe ebb and flow of melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAMusic Today presented Hidayat Khan at Surya Mahal, Radisson hotel, this past week, to mark the launch of its pop album of the year  -   Ziver: The Precious One. The new album by sitar exponent Hidayat Khan is said to be "rooted in classic Indian tracks with an upbeat melody that incorporates various styles  -   be it techno, hip-hop, electronica, Latin, Spanish or Indian classical music."The album would certainly sell like hot cakes since it has all the ingredients likely to appeal to the younger generation. "Ziver", the very first track, for instance, has a strong Latin influence with a beautiful interplay of the Indian sitar and the Western guitar that lends romantic appeal to the song "Mehsoos kar mujhe" based on raga Kirvani. Similarly with "Mhari dhimi payal baje" that incorporates the Rajasthani Maand.Hidayat was supposed to present excerpts from Ziver, but unfortunately he chose to start the evening with his sitar solo, opening the concert with raga Maru Bihag. Music lovers had come to listen to Hidayat with great expectations because he is the son of Ustad Vilayat Khan, and supposed to be his disciple as well.Maybe due to constraint of time, the alap-jod-jhala of Maru Bihag finished in hardly 10-15 minutes before he went on to play and sing thebandish(composition) "Jhuki aayi ri rain andhiyari kari kari" in Teen tala.Although it was a lovely bandish composed by Ustad Vilayat Khan with the mudra Inayat (from the name of his father the late Ustad Inayat Khan), Hidayat could not do full justice to it. Neither his sitar nor his singing could vouch for his talim (training) under his illustrious father.Mithilesh Jha's tabla accompaniment could easily overshadow him. Next came "Chhap tilak...", an excerpt from the album and a famous composition of Hazrat Amir Khusrau, along with the melodious sarangi of Ustad Asif Ali Khan, with Mithilesh Jha on the tabla.The alap on the sitar preceding the composition was much better this time.That Hidayat felt comfortable in the lighter vein was obvious through the touches of romantic ragas like Tilak Kamod and Desh, et al on the sitar, but the singing part was still lacking in perfection.There was no doubt that the sarangi and tabla did their best to enhance Hidayat's singing and sitar.MesmerisingSAM (Society for Action through Music) presented Sumitra Guha's vocal recital in the Pandit Gama Maharaj Smriti Samaroh at the Poorva Sanskritik Kendra auditorium this past weekend. Endowed with a sonorous voice and a musical temperament, Sumitra is originally trained in Carnatic music and later groomed by gurus of Hindustani Music like Pandit A. Kanan and Sunil Bose in Calcutta. So she has got the best of both worlds. That she is not only a reputed singer but a gifted composer as well was amply proved by the self-composedbandishesshe sang  in raga Maru Bihag and Kirvani. She opened her concert with a brief alap in raga Maru Bihag followed by the slow composition "Madhur Hari naam" set to Vilambit Ek tala and the madhya laya (medium tempo) chhota khayal "Muraliya baaj rahi" in Teen tala, rendering at good length with neat enunciation of the lyrical text and melodic appeal. Thealap barhatandbehelavawere rendered with aesthetic approach in a methodical manner. Sargams and taans were varied, neat and colourful. Next came a drut Ek tala bandish in raga Kirvani with equally superb treatment. Sumitra concluded her concert with a bhajan, but in fact her entire concert  had the devotional fervour. Jayram Potdar on the harmonium and Sudhir Pande on the tabla provided inspired accompaniment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/25/stories/2006082501860200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/25/images/2006082501860201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSONOROUS Sumitra Guha performing in the Capital.
p14
ss.