(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrict adherence tosruti, tradition
p3
sVnews
p4
VA. SANGAMESWARANPalakkad Mani Iyer is revered as a colossus in the art of playing the mridangam. However, except a fortunate few who were closely associated with him, not many knew he was an exceptionally talented singer. In fact, he is reported to have taught a few kritis to KVN, before introducing him to Ariyakudi. That talent has percolated down  to his grandson Ramaprasad, who presented a memorable concert at Nadopasana, Irinjalakuda.Palakkad Ramaprasad, a student in the United States, presented a short but sweet concert. The stress was on quality rather than quantity. In fact, the six or seven kritis sung by him had a distinct stamp of their own.Ably supported on the violin by his father and mentor ,T.R. Rajaram, and on the mridangam by his paternal uncle T.R. Rajamani  -   authority and torch bearer of the Mani Iyer bani  -   the concert evoked memories of past masters. After the customary varnam, for which he chose Kanada (`Neranammithi'), he sang `Bhajanaseya' in Kedaram. Poorvikalyani was taken next for a detailedalaapana, his voice effortlessly and effectively gliding through the three octaves and majestic kriti `Paramapavana' of Poochi Sreenivasa Iyengar. It was embellished with brilliantkalpanaswaras.A slow succulentalaapanaof Dvijavanthi preceded the Swati Tirunal padam `Tharunee njan,' which had a KVN touch.A short speedyalapanaof Bilahari contrasting with the kriti, `Doraguna' of Tyagaraja, was the main piece. The neraval for the line `Ramabrahma thanayudu,' where the saint identities himself as the son of Ramabrahmam, was noteworthy.Timely thaniavarthanamThaniavarthanam by T.R. Rajamani was timely and in unison with the structure of the kriti and he was supported by Pramod Mangad on the ghatam. An alluring Neelambari (`Vimalakamaladala' composed by Swati Tirunal) and a Pahadi Thillana composed by Lalgudi Jayaraman comprised the final phase.Strict adherence tosruthiand fundamentals of tradition were the hallmarks of the concert. It was evident that in addition to the guidance received from his father, he has acquired a lot of nuances by listening to the concerts of masters. Above all, he is blessed with a voice that can scale any musical phrase.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070701120200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.