(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VForever the right ring
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAThe Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth, SPIC MACAY, which normally organises its typical baithak style concerts in educational institutions  recently invited Farida Khanam to sing at the Siri Fort and Shahid Parvez for his sitar recital, at the Dilli Haat. Shahid hails from the famous lineage of the Etawah gharana. Born into a family of illustrious musicians he is the grandson of Ustad Waheed Khan the surbahar and sitar virtuoso, who was the younger brother of Ustad Inayat Khan.Shahid was first introduced to vocal and tabla by his father Ustad Aziz Khan, before he was initiated into the art of playing sitar.This may be the secret of his command over sur and laya. He has imbibed every minute technique of his gharana and gives great attention to the purity of raga and the gayaki and has earned himself a niche among the top-notch artistes in India and music lovers all over the world.Imaginative elaborationAt the concert he played in great detail raga Gauti, which is a favourite raga of his gharana. After an elaborate alaap, jod, jhala, he started the masit khani (vilambit) gat in jhaptaal of 10 beats cycle. Sudhir Pande was there to accompany him on the tabla whose very first uthaan proved that he was a perfect match for Shahid's melodious sitar. Shahid's virtuosity was evident all through, from masit khani to raza khani and the ati-drut gat in teen taal with a dazzling mukhara of a super fast taan. His cajoling with the tempo where he would travel throughout the avritti dodging the theka on every beat, his forceful gamak taans and the romantic and imaginative elaboration of raga Swarup, every aspect was captivating. The unbearable volume unfortunately marred the serene quality of music.The choice of this raga also would have been better for the second piece. The main raga is normally supposed to be a profoundly experienced and expressed one, by an artiste of such repute and  calibre. Shahid may have chosen Gauti taking into account the gaiety of the venue. In any case he played it beautifully. Sudhir Pande's tabla accompaniment was superb but it needed the balancing of volume with the sitar.Shahid concluded with an adorable Bhairavi, the `sada suhagin ragini'. The concert was attended by a number of discerning musicians and Ustads along with the overflowing crowd of music lovers. The rudra veena virtuoso Ustad Asad Ali Khan remarked `Ye Vilayat Khan ki jawani ka sitar tha' and complimented Shahid.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/04/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/04/22/stories/2005042201100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/04/22/images/2005042201100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN FULL FLOW: Shahid Parvez performing at Dilli Haat.
p14
ss.