(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNew tunes of Rabindra Sangeet
p3
sVnews
p4
VActually it was my musical training at Santiniketan that made the difference. Though as a child I learnt Western classical, I learnt serious Hindustani classical music for 14 years under Guru Mohan Singh Khangura of Santiniketan&#8217;s Music Department. And for the last 20 years, I have been learning Rabindra Sangeet from Swastika Mukhopadhyaya, again from Santiniketan. This variety of learning trained me to develop a good base.Quite early in my training I was made aware of the two streams of music and their characters. Classical music was basically sur pradhan (melody intensive) and Rabindra Sangeet was basically bani pradhan (verbal intensive) and as an exponent I have to make a conscious reproduction of the strengths of classical training in singing good Rabindra Sangeet. Then again, the entire atmosphere of Santiniketan makes one sing authentic Rabindra Sangeet.Yes, the singing is open-throated and spontaneous. Though the Vishwabharati Board has laid down precedents for its singing, this does not amount to rejection of all other innovations or styles of singing Rabindra Sangeet. There are senior artistes in the music world who have carved out a name for themselves in this sphere. Suchitra Mitra for instance, who is not from Santiniketan, has begun to speak of her music as a genre.Today, young people are used to interactive music sessions and Tagore is excellent for this type of mood enhancement. Besides, when I am singing before non-Bengali crowds, the mood of the music and the invitation  to join in makes audiences more receptive. I have performed before audiences in Kerala, the U.S., and elsewhere and have found the response good .Precisely. I have researched on them. Then I have sung the original and then in the Bengali Tagorean version alongside.Yes, I agree that is a problem, but I am on the lookout for a soprano trained voice to accompany me.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/09/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/09/21/stories/2007092150080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.