(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor the mind and the heart
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHSanthanagopalan made a special mention of child rasikas.These were music concerts organised recently in New Delhi as part of the Sri Rama Navami Utsavam of the Akhila Bharatha Sadhu Samajam. The spirit of the festival seemed to have pervaded the artistes. It was but natural that the bhakti rasa embedded in the compositions they presented increased manifold, soothing the senses and hearts of the rasikas. This is what happened during the concerts of Neyveli R. Santhanagopalan, N. Vijay Siva and Visaka Hari.Santhanagopalan's presentation of Tyagaraja's composition, "Nijamar mamulunu", in the raga Umabharanam, was emotive and portrayed the rich sahitya contents. In yet another of Tyagaraja's compositions, "Saamajavara gamana" in the raga Hindolam, apart from presenting the composition aesthetically, Santhanagopalan made the swaraprastara that followed very lively through his  imaginative swara combinations. Before presenting this item, he even announced that he was presenting this popular composition for the "child rasikas", who were many in number. The two elaborate compositions he then presented were Muttuswami Dikshitar's "Meenakshi", in the raga Poorvikalyani, and Tyagaraja's "Swara raga sudha" in Shankarabharanam. These were marked with outstanding alaps of both these ragas, excellent portrayal of the sahitya bhava, creative handling of the niraval of the phrases "Mathurapuri nilaye mani valaya" and "Moola dharaja nadhamerukuta mudhamagu mokshamura" respectively, and finally, rich swaraprastaras towards the end of each of these compositions.T.T. Srinivasan of Bangalore on the violin, Kumbakonam N. Padmanabhan on the mridangam and Mannai Kannan on the ghatam provided excellent support throughout. In particular, Padmanabhan rose to the occasion, and his support delighted not only the listeners but also Santhanagopalan, who could be seen acknowledging his expertise.In another concert, N. Vijay Siva enthralled the rasikas with his delightful music. His presentation of Shyama Sastri's compositon, "Pahi sri giri" in the raga Ananda Bhaivari was marked by a fine introductory alap, appropriate sahitya bhava, and excellent handling of the niraval and swaraprastara. Similarly, while presenting Dikshitar's "Sri Ranga Nayakam" in the raga Nayaki, Vijay Siva was able to bring the raga as well the sahitya bhava of the composition to the fore. Gopalakrishna Bharati's "Thiruvadi saranam" in Kamboji was prefixed with an excellent alap.Taking up the phrase "Aduthu vantha yennai thallal aagadhu harahara yendru sonnalum podhadho?' for niraval elaboration, he brought out creatively the emotional contents.Tyagaraja's "Orajupu jusedhi" in the raga Kanada Gowla was aesthetically presented with a good niraval and swaraprastara. V.S.K. Annadurai on the violin and A. Premkumar on the mridangam provided excellent accompaniment.Visaka Hari, who usually captivates the hearts of devotees through Sangeetha Upanyasam, this time enthralled rasikas with a memorable concert, containing a good variety. After a crisp Adi tala varnam, "Innum yen manam" in the raga Charukesi, Visaka presented a Thiruppavai, "Aazhi mazhai kanna" in the raga Varali, with a niraval of the phrase, "Vazha ulaginil peidhida'. She added richness to her presentation of Tyagaraja's "Sokasuga mridanga taalamu" in the raga Sriranjani with elaborate swaraprastaras. Yet another Tyagaraja kriti, "Nadu pai palikeru" in the raga Madhyamavati was marked by a fine alap as well as rich niraval and swara patterns.ExcellentThe main number, Arunachala Kavi's, "Yaro yendran Namame", in the raga Shankarabharanam, was handled excellently. Charulatha Ramajunam of Bangalore on the violin, Kumbakonam N. Padmanabhan on the mridangam and R. Ramamurthy on the ghatam provided excellent support, enhancing the overall quality of the concert. All these three concerts are bound to linger for a long time in the memory of the rasikas.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041400620200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041400620201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.