(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCultural feast
p3
sVnews
p4
VSYED MUTHAHAR SAQAFAs part of Tamil New Year Day celebrations, Rasika Ranjana Sabha, Tiruchi,  organised an eight-day music and dance festival recently.The festival also saw special pattimandram programme and Thevaram music programme, reflecting the Sabha's role in promoting Tamil and Tamil music.The celebrations took off with the performance by noted violin duo Ganesh and Kumaresh. The audience had a taste of vintage music as the duo delicately handled intricate krithis. They were accompanied by Sathish Kumar on the mridangam and Tenkasi Paramasivam on the ganjira.Mudikondan Malathi Krishnamani and S. N. Ramesh presented a veena concert. They were ably assisted by Koviladi R. Madwaprasad on the mridangam and Andanallur R. Renganathan on the ghatam.Muthamizh vizhaThe Sabha also conducted  Muthamizh Vizha. In his vocal recital Mohan Santhanam featured various and popular Tamil songs composed by eminent Tamil scholars and the Trinity of Tamil music. He was accompanied by N.C.Madhav on the violin and Madwaprasad on the mridangam.The Assistant Director, Department of Art and Culture, R. Gunasekaran, who inaugurated the programme, spoke on the role being played by the Sabha for the promotion of Tamil music.Hilarious momentsTheatre did not get left behind either. `Kalakkara Machi' by MRK and Mappillai Ganesh offered hilarious moments. The principal of Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, K. Sekar, was the moderator at the pattimandram which brought to light various socio-economic issues.A disciple of Minal Prabhu of Kalakshetra, Anita Santhanam of Bangalore, presented a dance performance along with cine fame Padma Priya.The valediction was marked by the vocal concert of Tirugnanasamabandam of Kumaravayalur. He was accompanied by V.Ganapathi on the violin, Koppu Nagarajan on the mridangam. Sri Mouna Kumara Swami Thambiran Swamigal inaugurated the programme.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042800900200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042800900201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVINTAGE VIOLIN: Ganesh and Kumaresh.   Photo: R. Rajarathinam
p14
ss.