(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSingers pay a fitting tribute to musical trinity
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn tribute to the great musical trinity &#8212; Thyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar and Syamasastri &#8212; the M.S.R. Sidhardha Kala Peetham of Vijayawada organised a three-day music festival in its auditorium Sidhardha Kala Kshetram. The festival presented a concert on each day attracting a good crowd and all the three vocal concerts were of high standards.On the first day, senior vocal vidwan and a producer in Akashvani, Modumudi Sudhakar gave a pleasing concert. He sang with vigour and depth, starting with Bhairavi Ata tala varnam in three speeds &#8212; chaturasram, trisram and chaturasra paikalam in a thorough manner. This was followed by a rarely heard keertana of Dikshitar Panchamatanga Mukha Ganapathina towards the end, to which Sudhakar rendered good kalpana swaras. A scintillating muktayi swaram, Sangeeta Samrajya Sancharini in Mohana Kalyani, found place in the next item .Ammaravamma in Kalyani and Kripaya palaya of Swathi Thirunal were two of the major items. Sudhakar made ample use of his vibrant voice to present both the ragas in a pleasing manner. He was also fluent in rendering the kalpana swaras in both the items. The pallavi sung in Thodi was the most impressive item. The lyrics Thodi padaga Harudu Adene &#8211; Bhava Raga Tala Gatula was efficiently elaborated with bhava laden niraval and swaras. B. V. Durga Bhavani faithfully followed the vocalist and her version of Thodi and Kalyani were attractive. M. L. N. Raju provided fine support on the mridangam and showed his artistry in the laya vinyasam with admirable efficiency. Towards the close of his concert, Sudhakar sang an Annamayya keertana in Dwijawanthi and a thillana of Balamurali in Behag.On the second day, Pantula Rama of Visakhapatnam presented a superb concert impressing the audience with her fine voice, full range and aesthetic sense. Her husband and violinist M.S.N. Murthy gave fine support to Rama. Particularly Rama's planning of the concert items and the proportions of the manodharmam aspects were perfect for a two-hour concert. Starting with Sriraga varnam, Rama continued with Ekadantam Bhaje in Bilahari adorning it with brief but enjoyable raga delineation and swaras. Her alapana of Subhapantuvarali preceding Dikshitar's Sri Satynarayanmupasmahe was superb. It was an unhurried and precise model of the raga. The raga was elaborated with a leisurely pace, aesthetic sense and on a few occasions with a hint of Hindustani flavour, which complemented the raga well. Imaginative swaras also added colour. Her concert was marked with great clarity of lyrics and proper modulation throughout.Another item in Rama's concert was Inta Sowkhyamani in Kafi. The raga elaboration had new twists. M. S. N. Murthy was fine on the violin and his Subhapantuvarali and kafi versions were melodic. K. Sadgurucharan was quite efficient on the mridangam. However, his tani was rather too long to suit a two-hour concert. Rama rendered a sparkling thillana of Lalgudi in Sindbhairavi at the close of the concert.The final day's concert was an engaging vocal duet by Vishnubhotla sisters; Saraswathi and Krishnaveni. The duo began with Abhogi keertana Simahaganapathi and followed it with Srimannarayana in Bowli, a popular Annamacharya keertana and Edari Sancharintura in a rare raga Srutiranjani. Krishnaveni delineated the raga with good grasp of the raga bhava. Dikshitar's Sriramam in Narayanagowla was sung impressively, with the sisters sharing the manodharmam aspects in a balanced manner.The main item of the concert was Swathi Thirunal's Deva Deva in Poorvikalyani. The raga was a memorable experience to the connoisseurs and the swaras, they rendered showed ample musical depth. Saraswathi and Krishnaveni conveyed the raga bhava with confidence and clarity. After a thrilling tani by B.V. Prasad (mridangam) and M. Haribabu (ghatam), the sisters sang melodiously a tarangam Govardhanagiridhari and a couple of Annamacharya keertanas. R. Dinakar, on the violin gave melodious support.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/11/stories/2011031150070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/11/images/2011031150070201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMemorable recitals M. Sudhakar (left), Pantula Rama (centre) and Vishnu Bhatla sisters.
p14
ss.