(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIG. SThe 47th Annual Cultural festival of the South Indian Cultural Association (SICA), was inaugurated at Ravindra Bharati on Saturday by the Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Government, J. Harinarayana.While congratulating the sabha for its progressive outlook in popularising carnatic music, he wondered what would have happened to Carnatic music had the Tamils not held Tyagaraja in high esteem and preserved his compositions.Advisor to the state government, N. Rangachari, lauded the sabha for featuring renowned musicians in the festival. SICA's president Dr. S. Chakravarti, said that the SICA is not just an organisation catering to the Tamil-speaking population but an organisation for India, as they were inviting stalwarts from Hindusthani music too.Sanjay Subramanyam of Chennai gave the inaugural concert in the company of Nagai Muralidharan on violin and veteran Vellori Ramabhadran on mridangamm. Sanjay made steady progress since the time he took part in youth festivals, and is now regarded as one among the leading South Indian talent in Carnatic music. His concert proved his mettle.Though a chartered accountant by profession, he is as much professional in Carnatic music too. He displayed a forceful style with good voice. His bold voice, however, sounded a bit strained in the beginning.Sanjay began with aSaveri varnam. HisYochana Kamala LochanainDarbarwas a pleasing rendition with free flowingswaras. The essay of Kannada for a composition of Swathi Tirunal, packed with imaginativeswaras, was interesting. Sanjay then took upBhairaviand delineated well. He rendered a Tamil composition and came up with well-packednerevalandswaras.Makelara Vicharamuin Ravinchandrika was another well-chosen popular number of Thyagaraja.After a rare piece inMadhyamavathi, Sanjay presented aRagam-Tanam-PallaviinDenukawithswarasdone in a chain ofAnanda Bhairavi,Varali, Begda, Kaapi andBehag. He then switched to a Purandara Dasa Kirtana,Kandu Dhanyana, Udipi Krishnanain the last mentioned ragaBehag, continuing its melodic line. A Tamil virutham inNadanamakriyaand aBagesrinumber closed his impressive show. Violinist Muralidharan followed him well adding his own nuances, while the veteran mridangam player lent a matching support, intuitively.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/23/stories/2007022300100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/02/23/images/2007022300100301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPROVING HIS METTLE Sanjay Subramanyam displayed a forceful style with good voice.
p14
ss.