(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLearning with a lilt
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPAditi Kaikini Upadhyaya was born in a family of highly acclaimed musicians. Her father Pandit Dinkar Kaikini is a renowned musician of the Agra gharana and was trained by the late Pandit Ratanjankar who in turn was a close disciple of none other than the late `Aaftaab-e-Mausiqi' Ustad Fyaz Khan of Baroda. Her mother Shashikala Kaikini is herself a highly proficient vocalist and teacher. Currently she is the Principal of Mumbai's Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan School of Music from where Aditi qualified for the academic degree of Sangeet Visharad in 1982.Aditi is an original and vibrantly creative musician and a worthy spokeswoman of her father's powerful and highly creative style in singing. She studied semi-classical music from the late Shobha Gurtu, known for her mastery over thumri, dadra, chaiti, kajara and bhajan. In keeping with her family tradition she too is a dedicated guru to a good number of deserving students. She is invited every year to give lectures at Bangalore's National Institute for Advanced Studies. Aditi is also an able composer and is carrying on her father's work in innovative choral presentation and stage work.Aditi commenced her recital of the evening with a brief alap in the raga Yaman Kalyan with which she established the raga's serene mood with noble effects. This she followed up with a well elaborated composition of Shah Sadarang, "Mero man baandh liyo", set to the slow tempo 12-beat Ek tala. The reposefully rendered badhat followed up with pleasingly inserted behelawa and sargam added further charm to the composition. The scores of neat and powerfully executed taans indicated her commendable prowess.  The mid tempo Teen tala composition of her father Dinkar Kaikini, known for his unique compositions, was rendered with lilting  variations. This song "Teri nazariya laage piyari" was a delight to listen to. The tarana of Gwalior's late Raja Bhaiya Poochhwale in drut Ek tala was a befitting finale to her renderings in Yaman Kalyan.One however wished that the pivotal note of Suddha Madhyam was deployed in a more befitting manner.Aditi further delighted with her charmingly rendered Jhap tala composition in a not  very common raga Chandrakauns derived from the raga Bageshwari. The song, an ode to Lord Ganesh "Vighan harey Ganesh" followed with another Dinkar Kaikini composition "Dhanya tu Krisna" set to madhya Teen tala were rare pieces of music, particularly  when so mellifluously rendered. She concluded with a Shobha Gurtu kajari "Nazariyaa laage kahin kis ore".She had excellent accompaniment on the harmonium by Vinay Mishra and on the tabla by Prasun Chatterjee.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.