(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMridangam takes centre stage
p3
sVnews
p4
VV.BALASUBRAMANIAN."SHANMATAM" is the title of a CD featuring D.A. Srinivas, mridangam vidwan, well known both in classical and film music circles. Produced by Kosmic Music, the CD was released at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Auditorium recently.Adi Shankara  established  SHANMATAM, the six aspects or six deities conducive to the well being of humanity. Srinivas presented a rhythmic obeisance to the phenomenon using slokas and songs with telling effect.It was an experience of unusual kind. The screen went up and there was no orchestra on the stage. Srinivas was seated in the centre on an elevated platform with his mridangam. The symbols of SHANMATAM adorned the side screens. Behind him was an imposing idol of Lord Ganapathy. Priya Manikandan's lighting at times sober, at times contrasting, embellished the proceedings. Ashwini and Rohini chanted slokas in praise of Lord Gansea to mark the beginning of the show and Ganapatyam, the first aspect. One had learnt that Srinivas would play live, while orchestral portions including voices would be played through a CD. The concept is referred to as Minus One. It proved to be a tremendous effort indeed. Timing was vital here as even a minute miss would result in disaster.  Kudos to Srinivas who was concentration personified, with his attention riveted on the  jalra, which was the click track. In a studio, mistakes can be corrected but in a live concert it calls for the skill of a funambulist.It was the Souram segment that stole the show. After Soura Sooktham was completed, the screen went up ushering in a rising sun effect.  Sharreth, who has composed the music for the CD, chanted excerpts from Aditya Hrudayam. A tani with the tabla as the other accompaniment in the minus one track was handled with great alacrity. The Souram piece concluded with dancers all dressed alike representing Surya's chariot  galloping  round the stage.The musical jamboree of Koumaram included Kavadi, Muruga namavali and Kavadi Chindu. Srinvas chanted the Tiruppugazh ``Muthai Thiru" in Mishra Chapu talam in a typical prose style playing alongside the mridangam that was followed by a brilliantly rendered veena bit by Punya Srinivas. An idol of Muruga adorned the background as did the statue of Shakti for Saktam.For the Vainavam episode a dancer (Anuradha) dressed like Mahavishnu stood still like statue as  excerpts from Venkatesa Suprabhatam and Krishna Ashtakam were chanted.  The contribution of artistes who played various instruments and those who rendered songs and slokas should be mentioned here.Saivam was the grand finale of the two-hour presentation with a huge Siva Lingam in the background.  Sharreth rendered Rudrashtakam and Banashtakam using the brass and strings sections intelligently, leading to Bho Shambho (Vishwambari, M.Balamuralikrishna).The climax of the tani was an adroitly conceived Mohra and Korvai. The other percussions joined in the track to bring the curtain down to a thunderous applause.Vikram Chakravarthi of NCS Group of Companies, Kakinada, (sponsors of the programme), felicitated Srinivas. Madurai T Srinivasan, Srinivas's guru, expressed satisfaction at the rise of his disciple as an accomplished player. Mridangam maestro Karaikkudi R Mani  released the CD.  V.S.Narasimhan, violin virtoso received the CD.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100602350900.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100602350901.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRHYTHMIC OBEISANCE: Choreography enhanced the effort of D. A. Srinivas (centre).
p14
ss.