(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPresented with fervour
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn the Krishna Gana Sabha Gokulashtami Series, the Hyderabad Sisters, Lalitha and Haripriya in their recital expressed their musical personality by smartness of presentation. The accent all along was on extra pressured tempo, to justify perhaps the c\u000aonferment of the title Sangeetha Choodamani this year. A clear stream of fervour ran along their expository pathways, not to let go of their exclusive kutcheri objective for the day.Adherence to tradition takes different forms at the hands of different musicians. The Hyderabad Sisters were stirred by technical competence in their extraordinary manodharma overtones in raga alapana. Artistry did not suffer in the process, though equanimity was not their clear motivation. They introduced many clever phrases (Lalita particularly in the Thodi RTP alapanas), creative excitement getting the better of melodic needs. Spontaneity of exposition was commendable.Of the ragas handled, shared by both, Naasamani (Sri Rama-Saraswati) was vibrant and erudite, Poorvikalyani (Ninnu-Vinaga-Hari) was placid and Thodi phrases were such as to pick the brain. The vidwat, training and experience spread over decades were evident. As the ragas progressed attention got more and more directed to magnitude on vigorous tonal strength.Lalita&#8217;s Thodi specially was to invoke an image of immensity and the communicative power she imparted paid rich dividend by its impact on the rasikas. For the most part singing range was tarasthayi.The kirtana rendition in general was compactly packaged with sangathis deployed to enhance potent intensity. The Kannadagowla kirtana &#8220;Orajoopuchu&#8221; was rendered with great fuss, the bhava not much emphasised.The unfamiliar Naasamani alapana, kirtana and swaras were dealt with elaborately to inform the rasikas that it was not unfamiliar to them, a manifestation of a trend that has gained importance. The Purvikalyani kirtana formed the mainstay for the song session and due weightage was given to its sahitya wealth, musical resources and structural eminence. The niraval had  copious twists and turns. Usually tenderness of rhythmic melody used to form the characteristic style of Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar&#8217;s play. The overall exuberance of the Hyderabad Sisters had tempted him to go for &#8220;sound&#8221; vigour and vitality.The sparkle and range of his accompanying technique for songs were enticing. Padma Shankar was on the violin. She has enough competence to understand the core of Carnatic music but experience alone can  endow depth of accompaniment by reflecting the preference of the vocalists. This was to be seen in the pulsating niraval passages by the Hyderabad Sisters and Padma Shankar&#8217;s true response. She has years before her to blossom fully.Sri Krishna Gana Sabha commenced its 53rd Gokulashtami Sangeetha Utsavam, dedicating it to Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer.B.K. Krishnaraja Vanaravayar, Chairman, Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan, Coimbatore Kendra, inaugurated the festival and presented the Birudhu, &#8220;Sangeetha Choodamani&#8221; to Lalitha and Haripriya, popularly known as the Hyderabad Sisters and the Birudhu &#8220;Acharya Choodamani&#8221;, to Parassala Ponnammal. Nedunuri Krishnamurthi and P.S. Narayanaswami felicitated the award winners.Many youngsters from various disciplines in music chosen by the Sabha for their abilities were also honoured on this occasion. Vanaravayar in his speech decried the tendency of getting glued to the television sets and made an appeal to the public to attend concerts.  Nedunuri Krishnamurthy commended  the Hyderbad Sisters for their adherence to classicism.P.S. Narayanaswami said that  it was most fitting that that the award should be conferred on Parasala Ponnammal this year when the  birth centenary year of Semmangudi was being celebrated. He also said that Ponnammal was a great singer and her music has matured and ripened over the years. The awardees in their acceptance speech thanked the Sabha and dedicated the awards to their gurus.S. Sivakumar
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/08/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/08/15/stories/2008081551280400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/08/15/images/2008081551280402.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFelicitation: At the Gokulashtami  festival inauguration
p14
ss.