(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMaestros show the way
p3
sVnews
p4
VSHYAMHARI CHAKRAGone are the days when classical arts flourished under royal patronage. With shrinking support from the society and the state, it has been miserably marginalised. A silver lining in the cloud, however, has been the corporate support. And the global metals and mining major Vedanta Group has filled in that void for the artistes and connoisseurs of classical music of Orissa by sponsoring an annual national classical music festival at Bhubaneswar.Known as Vedanta-BMC Sangeet Mahotsav, it was launched last week in the State capital by the four-decade-old Bhubaneswar Music Circle (BMC), the only organisation of its kind in Orissa that patronises classical music and dance. Vedanta and BMC have signed a MoU to host the event every year at Bhubaneswar.Versatile artistesThe three-day event showcased three immensely popular artistes of the country &#151;  flute maestro Hariprasad Chaurasia, Carnatic vocalist Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan and Hindustani vocalist Meeta Pandit. It also featured three versatile artistes of the state &#151;  Odissi singer Sangeeta Gosain, Hindustani violinist Ramesh Chandra Das and Hindustani vocalist Debendra Narayan Satpathy.Apparently as a tribute to Orissa, the hosts presented Odissi music and honoured Pandit Chaurasia in the inaugural evening. (Chaurasia started his career as a flute player with All India Radio, Cuttack in 1956 and is setting up his Vrindaban Gurukul in Bhubaneswar).Sangeeta, a regular vocalist for Odissi dance performances of the Odissi Research Centre, set the mood of the evening with a bouquet of traditional Odissi music &#151;  Champu and Chhanda apart from an emotive rendition of Jayadev'sGeet Govind. And it was the flute wizard who mesmerised the audience at the Rabindra Mandap auditorium with his rendition of ragaYaman, better known asKalyaniin the South.While hisaalapthat lasted for more than 15 minutes cast a spell on them, thejodthat followed withpakhawajand tabla in the complex nine beats left them spellbound. Bhawani Shankar, thepakhwajplayer, was as captivating as Chaurasia. On demand, Pandit obliged the audience with apahadi dhunin his inimitable style.Delhi-based young and acclaimed vocalist Meeta Pandit, the first woman of the legendary Gwaliorgharanaof her grandfather Krishnarao Sankar Pandit and father L.K. Pandit, enthralled with her vibrant and unconventional voice and an exceptional tonal clarity. She is famous for her specialtappas. Her presentation of ragaKedarand a Kabirbhajanwent off well.Hindustani violinist Ramesh Chandra Das, the other performer of the evening brought in novelty to his presentation by accompanying Odissimardal, a non-traditional percussion instrument in Hindustani music. It was played by Guru Banamali Moharana, the first Akademi awardee who is regarded as the father ofmardal. Das preferred to play ragaKafi.The concluding evening had a neat and emotive presentation of raga Kalavati by Hindustani vocalist D.N. Satpathy followed by aBrahmananda bhajancomposed by Balbant Rai Bhatt of Gwaliorgharana.Noted tabla player Umesh Chandra Kar rendered an excellent support to the vocalist.Curtains came down on the festival with a pulsating performance by Padma Bhusan Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan. For more than two hours the versatile vocalist, composer and Harikatha exponent hooked the audience to their chairs with his brilliant rendition of ragas likeHamsadhwani, Hindolam&#151;  a Thyagarajkriti,Nilambari, ShankarabharanandMohanabefore concluding with a traditionaltillana.For the Bhubaneswar audience, who have less exposure to Carnatic music, it was a unique opportunity to appreciate the nuances of the rich musical tradition of the South through the legendary musician who helped them by explaining the specialties before each of his renditions. Seshagopalan's remarkable rich voice, creativity and stylised singing showed how the regimented Carnatic music can be made accessible and acceptable to an alien audience.And he won over the Oriyas by singing anastapadifrom Jayadev'sGeet Govind, the saint poet of the land.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120800740200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120800740203.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.N. Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.