(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA trust to propagate the  triumvirate&#8217;s compositions
p3
sVnews
p4
VA new music trust called  Sama Gana Lahari was started by Malladi Suribabu and his sons Malladi Sriram Prasad and Ravikumar with Suribabu as the managing trustee. The three-day music festival arranged in connection with this was sponsored by Indian Overseas Bank, Chennai.As explained by  Nedunuri Krishnamurthy who inaugurated the function, the aims of the trust are, to celebrate the Jayanthis and Vardhanthis of the musical trinity and propagate their great compositions also explaining the lyrical and musical beauties in the compositions. Nedunuri presided over the trust&#8217;s inaugural meeting and the special guests were Jandhyala Shanker, former Mayor of the city, Malladi Vishnu, ex-chairman, VGTUDA, scholar T.S. Ramachandra Rao, Badam Madhava Rao, a patron of arts and Subramanyam, Regional Manager of Indian Overseas Bank. The meeting party was compered by Perala Balamurali Krishna of Visakhapatnam.A brief concert by Nedunuri followed. Vijayawada rasikas had the opportunity of listening to Nedunuri after a long gap. Nedunuri started  withGajananayutham(Chakravakam) and followed withParvathikumaram(Natakuranji),Viraja Turaga(Balahamsa),Pancha Shatpeetha Roopini(Devagandharam in Dikshitar tradition) and as the main item,Sivakameswariin Kalyani. The manodharma aspects ragas, niraval and kalpanaswaras rendered by the master musician amply reflected the great musical depth Nedunuri has achieved in his six decade long career.On the second day a concert by Manda Sudharani of Visakhapatnam was presented. Known as an expert in rendering intricate pallavis and rare kritis with sound manodharmam, Sudharani renderedRakta Ganapathim(Mohana),Pavanajatmaja(Nata),Padavi ni Sadbhakthi(Salaga Bhairavi) and as the main item Sudharani sang the Dwijavanthi keertanaChetasri Balakrishnam. The niraval she rendered in another major item was a superb essay raga bhava and sahitya bhava. Mostly Sudharani rendered Dikshitar&#8217;s compositions. Another notable thing in her concert was Sudharani explained the specialities of the compositions and the meaning of them clearly and crisply. B.V. Durga Bhavani, B.V.S. Prasad and M. Haribabu gave the singer fine support on violin, mridangam and ghatam respectively. One wondered why Haribabu the ghatam player did not participate in the &#8216;tani&#8217;. Sudharani closed her concert with Syama Sastri&#8217;sKanakasaila Vihariniin Punnagavarali andLali Lali yani Ucheraan Utsava Sampradaya keertana of Thyagaraja.The last day&#8217;s concert was a sumptuous vocal duet by popular Malladi brothers Sriram Prasad and Ravikumar. They sangManasa Guruguha(Ananda Bhairavi),Arunachalanadhamin Saranga,Chintayamam(Bhairavi),Devi brova(Chintamani) andNadachi Nadachi, the main item. Superb raga essays by Prasad and Ravi for this majestic Kharaharapriya keertana of Thyagaraja marked the concert. The entire main item was rendered by the brothers in vigorous without sacrificing the aesthetics. Excellent support came from Embar Kannan of Chennai, V.Venkataramana of Visakhapatnam and S.Hanumanta Rao on violin, mridangam and ghatam. Yanamandra Srinivasa Sarma, a profound scholar eloquently explained the greatness of the compositions the Sangeeta Trimurthis.P.S.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/04/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/04/04/stories/2008040450540200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.