(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDistilled essence
p3
sVnews
p4
VR.K. Srikantan&#8217;s concert on Saturday was part of the Vidyasagara Prof. M.P.L.Sastry Memorial Cultural Festival conducted by the MES Kalavedi. He was accompanied by R.S.Ramakantha (vocal support), Nalina Mohan (violin), Anoor Ananthakrishna Sharma (mridanga), and Ranganatha Chakravarthi (ghata).The Begada varna in adi tala was followed by Siddhivinayakam, Deekshthars krithi in Shanmukhapriya, and a few kalpanaswaras suffused with raga bhava. The alapana of Darbar and the Thyagaraja composition Yochana Kamalalochana highlighted the melodic sweetness of the raga, simultaneously retaining its heavy classical flavour with phrases and looped sancharas basic to its identity.Poornachandrika was elaborated with a significant stress on the mandra sthayi, and on the consonance between the panchama and rishabha in the lower, middle and higher registers, followed by Thyagarajas Palukavemi. Vinave Omanasa in Vivardhani was succeeded by a beautiful alapana of Mohana, Bhavanutha in adi tala, and kalpanaswaras that reflected the brisk tempo of the krithi.Santhamuleka in Sama led to the main raga of the evening, Kamboji. The alapana, focusing more on the madhya and tara sthayis, unfurled with a succession of exquisite aural patterns, especially in the expansion around the tara sthayi gandhara by R.S.Ramakantha.The Deekshithar krithi Kailasanathena in misra chapu tala featured kalpanaswaras accentuated by competent support from the accompanying artistes, ending with a tani avarthana.The concert concluded with devaranamas in Saranga, Abheri and Yamuna Kalyani. One would have liked to listen to the maestros exposition of neraval at some point during the recital. It was, nevertheless, an example of distilled classicism infused with a venerable quality that transcended technicalities.Senior artiste Suguna Purushothaman performed at the same venue on Sunday, accompanied by Kalyani Shankar (violin), M.T.Rajakesari (mridanga), M.A.Krishnamoorthy (ghata) and Kumuda Sampath (vocal support).The concert began with the Darbar varna Chalamela in adi tala, and continued with two magnificent compositions Deekshithars Sreemahaganapathiravathumam in Gowla (misra chapu), and Puliyur Doraiswami Iyers Saraseeruhasanapriye in Nattai (adi) suffixed with vibrant kalpanaswaras. A fairly-detailed alapana of Ramapriya was followed by the Patnam Subrahmanya Iyer krithi Korinavara, incorporating neraval and kalpanaswaras at Paricharavanara. Neerajakshi in Hindolam was rendered with great devotion and attention to both lyrical and musical aspects. The elaboration of Kedaragoula conformed to the traditional format, incorporating phrases and special usages unique to the raga. Neraval and kalpanaswaras at an unusual juncture in the charana Sreenivasa needu in the first drutha of the adi tala of the krithi Saragunapalimpa, were evidence of the artistes mastery over the idiom. Pakkala in Kharaharapriya was preceded by an exhaustive alapana, and rounded off with neraval at Tanuvuche, kalpanaswaras culminating in a few cycles of diminishing length ending at the panchama augmented by the supportive improvisations of the accompanists, and an elaborate tani avarthana. The concert was interspersed with a few other krithis including Adenamma in Paras and Govinda Hare, a ragamalika. Though the artiste&#8217;s voice appeared to be less than perfect at times, the performance was a confluence of scholarship, a lifetime of experience and unmistakable reverence for, and dedication to, the art.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/26/stories/2008092650790200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/26/images/2008092650790201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEnthrallingSuguna Purushothaman mesmerised the audience
p14
ss.