(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStriking the right chord
p3
sVnews
p4
VANUPAMA RIt was like any other Friday evening on the Museum premises in Thiruvananthapuram...  People briskly walking past, sitting around lazily,  the birds chirping incessantly.Everything was the same until a faint  melancholic hum of three violins and a cello, as soothing as the summer breeze, transformed the setting. It was perhaps the first time in the history of Thiruvananthapuram that a western classical music concert was being held at the Museum bandstand, courtesy Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, the Embassy of France in India and the Department of Museums and Zoos.The concert by `Quatuor Neemrana,' enchanted the audience.Unusual nameSo why choose `Neemrana,' an Indian town as the name of a western classical band?"We wanted a name that would suit this international tour...  We had heard of a place called Neemrana and liked the sound of it," explains Gauthier Herrmann who plays the violoncello. The others who form the group are Julien Dabonneville on the viola, Guillaume Molko and Sullimann Altmayer on the violin.The Quartet performed three concerts in the city, one on the Museum premises, the other at Vylloppilly Samskriti Bhavan and one at Sree Chitra Poor Home.Says Jose-Marie Cortes, Director, Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, "It was a moving experience at the Sree Chithra Poor Home. The children laughed a lot as the musicians clowned around for them."It is this ability to connect with the audience that makes their performance so striking. Whether it was through the `Aria' by Bach or `Gustave Holst,' or the surprise number, `I will survive' by Gloria Gaynor, Quatuor Neemrana moved, cheered and entertained the audience in the museum grounds.For the connoisseursThe repeat concert at Vylloppilly Samskriti Bhavan was more for the connoisseurs of western classical music, as the quartet played compositions of Schubert and Bach. But even to the most uninitiated novice, the poignant tones of the cello and the violins must have been comforting.Fans of Pandit Ravi Shankar and Hariprasad Chaurasia, these young musicians got together some years ago. Devoted entirely to western classical, they are not interested in playing any other kind of music. Nor do they want to compose music. "We don't want to try that, since we have great masters like Beethoven and Bach," says Sullimann.However, they do like listening to jazz and Gauthier loves James Blunt, much to the amusement of the other members.Besides music, Guillaume likes to watch and play soccer. Sullimann and Gauthier like travelling while Julien likes watching sports on television. Even though India and Indian music does not influence their music, Quatuor Neemrana loves Bollywood. This was evident, when during the concert at the Museum, they suddenly broke into `Kaho na kaho' from the Hindi film, `Murder.'Besides playing in several Indian cities, the quartet will play in Paris, at the Pro Musica festival in Pamiers and in Rome's Villa Medicis in 2006.So what are their future plans?"Perhaps more concerts in India?" laughs  Gauthier.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033100670300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033100670301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSICAL QUARTET: `Quatuor Neemrana' tuned in with some fine numbers from their wide repertoire.
p14
ss.