(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VShift that appealed
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKT. N. Krishnan, violin maestro, is one who etches the beauty of a raga with minimal phrasing. But in his concert for the Indian Fine Arts Society, in observance of  G. N. Balasubramaniam Day, he shifted his style of play to reflect the special characteristics of GNB's bhani.However, he evoked a rich tone in his instrument. Appearing to be simple, it carried stupendous appeal.In the elaboration of the ragas Malayamarutham (`Manasaa Etulo'), Suddha Dhanyasi ("Himagiri Tanaye") and Sriranjani ("Maarubalka") he built the trellis of phrases around moorchana swaras. Particularly while rendering the Sriranjani song, the rippling rhythm in the sangatis came out with a clean image. In whatever style he played there was musical idealism, sampradaya and devotion to art.Guruvayoor Dorai (mridangam), while playing for the songs, was subdued in his beats. In his tani with Vaikom Gopalakrishnan (ghatam) the sound was reverberatingly loud.Fine balanceWhen clear enunciation of sahityas gets expressed through a musically appealing voice, the rasikas are enabled to enjoy it from a higher appreciative level. Such was the Bahulapanchami performance of Vasundhara Rajagopal for Sri Thyagaraja Seva Samiti. The discipline in her singing and fine vocal balance was reflected in the rendering of well-chosen Tyagaraja songs and in bright and articulate raga alapanas.In particular, the heightened resonance of the kirtana (`Sitavara') preceded by a clipped Devagandhari alapana was a product of intense musical motivation. The accompanists V. Sanjeev (violin) and S. Balashankar (mridangam) could have been more meaningfully supportive.Lively brigasA music lover can reasonably expect years of cutcheri experience to lead an artiste from tempo craze to exposition of ragas and kirtanas in tranquillity.Sudha Raghunathan chose to frame her recital on the strength of lively brigas, though she is capable of reposeful music. Rasikas, mostly old, would like to be lulled by soothing sangita, but where are they to go when experienced popular vidwans hunt after speed, sprint spirit and stridency?In her concert at the Asthika Samajam's Rama Navami festival, the succulent Devagandhari song `Sri Thulasamma' and `Mariyadagaadayya' (Bhairavam), `Raghu Vara Nannu' (Pantuvarali) and `Deva Devam' (Hindolam) were cast in such a mould. Bhairavi was the main raga.Pakala Ramadoss (violin) pursued his own perception of raga elaboration in his solo, which, to say the least, was pedestrian. A. S. Ranganathan (mridangam) along with Raman (morsing) kept the percussion wing in step with Sudha Raghunathan's pace.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/06/stories/2005050603100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.