(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA plethora of performances
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a true festival of music, dance and drama in spirit and letter. We had Nityashree Mahadevan, the Hyderabad brothers, Ranjani and Gayatri, A. Kanyakumari and Parassala Ponnammal not to mention Anitha Guha's dance troupe and a Tamil drama. What more could one ask for?While Nityashree adhered to her &#8216;brand' of music &#8212; a lovely voice oozing confidence as she goes top gear with the manodharma and neraval in the choicest kritis like Devadeva Sri Vasudeva... (Sindhunamakriya), Nee vaa Saravana Bhava..., Kanjadalayathakshi....(a Dikshitar in Kamalamanohari ) Lavanya Rama... (Rudrapriya), Yenduku daya raada Sri Ramachandra... (Thodi) it was easy to discern that the grammar of the idiom was more important to her than the bhava or the sahitya. She makes use of all the finesse that go for a stylistic rendition but within the parameters of classicality.Scholarly recitalHyderabad Brothers, Seshachari and Raghavachari, were a treat to listen to. One excellent piece led to another. The Ata tala varnam in Khambhoji set the tone for a steady, scholarly, serene recital. Be it the Kanada Gowla Orajupu joochi&#8230; or Ranjani ( Jalajanabha Hari&#8230;) or the Malayamarutham ( Krithapuri kshetra) or Saurashtra ( Ranganadhude&#8230;) or Shubha Panthuvarali( Ennallu oorake unduvo...) or Kedaragowla (Tulasi, bilwa, mallika...) or Swati Tirunal's Tillana, there was a right mixture of improvisation and technicalities like encompassing alapana, show of prowess like the pun used in Antha Ranganadhude... or the expertise in touching the three cyclic speeds.N. Sriram on the violin spoke eloquent. D.S.R Murthy on the mridangam and Gopalakrishna on the kanjira did a near perfect tani and laya vinyasam contributing to a wholesome fare.If the Hyderabad brothers brought balance and evenness to their music, Ranjani and Gayatri were like two vocal wizards who could just about handle anything and take it to excellence. Be it a vilamba kala kriti or a madhyamala kala keertana, they vested it with richness through their rendition enhancing it in every way. Individually each had a style of singing and neither could be said to outdo the other. If ever there was equality in excellence it was here. As they meandered through the swarakalpana going for extensive and exclusive manodharma, the audience was left wondering whom to admire of the two.In perfect harmonyNinne nammithi.. in Kamavardhini (Panthuvarali) and Gopalakrishna Bharati's account of Nandanar's plight in Natakuranji in Misrachapu moved in full control of the raga and bhava. Their stylistic rendition was more evident in the way Ranjani balanced herself in the base while Gayatri raised her tones together harmonising the swarakalpana weaved in unison. The ragam, tanam, pallavi in Kamas (khanda jati triputa tala) was a piece of exquisite exposition of the RTP with the duo foraying into Bowli, Desh, Sindhubhairavi, and so on with scaling the three cycles in the penultimate part making for a challenging concert. Dilli Sairam on the mridangam was an enthusiastic percussionist. K.V. Gopalakrishna on the kanjira and H.N. Bhaskar on the violin were good.Veteran vocalist Parassala Ponnammal who also received the annual &#8216;Kalasagaram' award along with mridangist D. Lakshminarayana Raju, gave us a glimpse of the old school of singing devoid of popular measures like for instancewinding, speedy manodharma holding one's breath to utter amazement of the listeners or excessive expressions at the end of each avrutham to name a few. With her Anandabhairavi ( Manasa guru guham bhaje) had to flow like a steady stream in joy, while Poorvikalyani ( Gyanamosaga raada...) was really vibrating with knowledge of how to handle a raga in all its sweetness and rigid form. Her manodharma went strictly by the raga she dwelt with and the ease with which she would circulate the swaras was learning in itself. The flow of swaras may not be lustrous like in the present day musicians but had a depth difficult to gauge.Bhama Krishnan's vocal support was very controlled lending where it should. K.V. Krishna on the violin, D. Lakhminarayana Raju on the mridangam and Kapa Srinivasa Rao on the kanjira made their presence felt. Kalasagaram hosted the festival at Keyes High School.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/10/stories/2010121050330300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/10/images/2010121050330303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VD. Seshachari and D. Raghavachari.
p14
ss.