(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt poured ragas
p3
sVnews
p4
VBlessed with a pleasant climate, Bangaloreans celebrated the rains last weekend with another of the Malhar Utsavs, now an annual event organised by the city-based Gururao Deshpande Sangeet Sabha.Vocalist Jayasri Patnekar, sitar player Ustad Rafique Khan, and the city's harmonium duo Ravindra Katoti and Vyasamurthi Katti presenting a jugalbandi and Sabha's founder Vinayak Torvi trying to relive Pt. Bhimsen Joshi's Miyan Ki Malhar, there was enough for every Hindustani music lover. You had playful, short tunes to enjoy. You had lengthy alaaps to cherish for long time.Rare jugalbandiHindustani music lovers who only knew Katoti and Katti as accompanying artistes, learnt that they are worth more. They gave soulful rendition of three ragas and earned applauses from the audience several times. That they could bring out the gayaki ang through the harmonium, which normally is unable to bring out long, flowing notes, spoke volumes of their talent. By controlling wind flow they produced different intonations. In fact, Ravindra Katoti went a step ahead. With an unusual bellowing technique, he controlled the volume of the instrument.The duo played the composition "Badarawa barasana aaye... " in Sur Malhar raga in perfect harmony in fast pace (drut). They followed it up with a cheerful Ramdasi Malhar and Mishra Kafi.Rafique Khan is also known for his gayaki ang. His Misra Kirwani was playful and the alaap of Pat Malhar was soulful. He gave the longest and best of the alaaps. He produced unique meends that greatly enhanced the quality of his music. He clearly charmed the jam-packed audience: he was given a thunderous applause.Though Ms. Patnekar began her concert on a dull note in Goud Malhar with the composition "Gori tore kaarana mana... " she established a good connection with the audience as she progressed. The rainy season got its finest expression with her rendition of Jayant Malhar ("Saavana ghana garaje... "). She touched a chord with the bhajan "Ye ho mohre shya... "Pandit Torvi was at his best when he presented the composition "Karim naam tero... " made famous by Pt. Joshi in raag Miya Malhar. Pt. Torvi's eternal spirit of teacher couldn't be missed. He would stop in between to explain the delicate aspects of the raga. His concert had everything &#151;  power, good technique, great body language and good vocal support. People went home reciting a part of the rendition: "Pi pi karata papiha... " He also presented raag Basanth with the composition "Pagava pinjarana... " and abhang "Dhanya divasa laagi chaar... " in raag Miya Ki Sarang.GOVIND D. BELGAUMKARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/25/stories/2006082502370300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/25/images/2006082502370301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE Rafique Khan's Mishra Kirwani was playful
p14
ss.