(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVibrant performances
p3
sVnews
p4
VSANKAR NA concert of Sriram Gangadharan, organised by the Sadguru Sangeetha Sabha, at Padmasri Hall, Tali, evoked memories of the late G.N. Balasubramanian (GNB), veteran vocalist and composer.Sriram started with a varnam in Vasantha raga of Thachur Shinkarachari, `Ninnukoriyoonara...' and followed it up with `Inthakannaandame nee...' of Thyagaraja in Bilahari.`Deva deva Jagadeesha...' of Swati Tirunal in Poorvikalyani was the next piece. Theragalapanawas good and meticulously delineated.Next was the GNB masterpiece in Khamas, `Brochevarevarura,' a composition of Mysore Vasudevachariar.Theneravalat `Kanchadalalochani' was followed by a brilliantswaraprastharainvolving muchkanakkus. `Paramapurusham...' of Swati Tirunal in Lalithapanchamam, was rendered in a fine pace and with goodbhavam.As the mainalapanafor the evening, Sriram sketched a very special Thodi, exploring various unusual but remarkablesancharas and omitting thepanchamam,which added to the charm of the rendition.Sruthibedhamwas performed with ease and perfection, paving the way to Harikamboji. This was well received by the audience.Thekritichosen was `Sarasija nabha murare' of Swati Tirunal as the day was formally dedicated to him. Theneravalandswaraprastharaagain were sung in good pace and with marvellouskanakkus. It was followed by a goodthaniavarthanam.Thethukkadas at the end were `Kaliyuga...' in Kurinji, `Radha Sametha Krishna' and `Jaga Janani sukhapani kalyani...,' a melodious old song in Rathipathipriya. Siriram, who began his musical career as a flautist at an early age, decided to become a vocalist because of his passion for vocal music. Throughout the concert Sriram exhibited his powerfulshareeram, in both thealapanaand kriti rendition. It evidently reflected the tremendoussadhanahe puts in. His dazzlingbrigas, pronunciation,sangathis and briskswaraprastharawith the characteristic permutations of GNB were very well received by GNB fans. The fastkalapramanamset by him for all the songs made manysangathis, stunning and colourful. A kriti of Dikshitar or Shyama Sastri would have boosted the concert atmosphere to greater heights.T.H. Subramaniam on the violin and Tanjavur Ramdas on the mridangom enthralled the audience.  D. Rajagopal could well maintain the pace of the kritis on the ghanchiraOutstanding recitalAnother vocal concert that was outstanding was of Srivalsan J. Menon. All through the concert, theragalapanas and the kriti rendition were done with finesruthi shuddhiand vividpadanthara.Srivalsan started with the Sriraga varnam, `Sami ninne kori' of Karur Devudu Iyer. It was followed by `Pranamamyaham Sri Gourisutham' in Goula of Mysore Vasudevachariar. Thekalapramanamenriched the rendition.The next item was `Mamavasada Janani' of Swati Tirunal in Nattaikurinji raga. Theneravalat Lalitha mani was smooth and aesthetically structured. Then came the small and beautiful song of Thyagaraja in Huseni raga, `Rama ninne Namminaru,' one seldom heard in recent concerts. `Sabhapathiku veru deivam Samanamakuma thillai...' in Abhogi raga, a well-known kriti of Gopalakrishna Bharathiyar, a Tamil composer who was a contemporary of the Trinity, rendered at the right time made the concert atmosphere more colourful.This was followed by Poorvikalyani alapana. `Meenakshi Memudham,' believed to have been rendered by his disciples when Dikshitar attained samadhi, was taken up and a rather goodneravalperformed at `Madhurapuri Nilaye...'Bhairavi, taken up for the main alapana, suited the evening. It was sung with goodbhavam, though thesancharams were ordinary. Thanam was also sung, to the accompaniment of the mridangam. As a coincidence, the kriti rendered was `Janani Mamava' set in Misrachapu thaalam. It is one of the Navarathri Kritis of Swati Tirunal.Thethukkadas rendered were `Aarabhimanam,' a famous raagamalika of Tanangambadi Panchanaada Iyer, `Govardhana Giridhaara Govinda,' Darbari Kanada kriti of Narayana Theerthar and `Alashara parithapam' of Swati Tirunal in Surutti raga, which was started from the anupallavi, `Jalaja bandhu...'Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/06/stories/2005050602910300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/06/images/2005050602910301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSOULFUL RENDITION: Sreevalsan J. Menon   Photo: S. Ramesh Kurup
p14
ss.