(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe vocal concert of Palai Ramachadran, a disciple of Semmangudi, sponsored by Kalasagaram last week was a fine example of traditional music devoid of mannerisms and showmanship. It did not have the hype and hoopla of modern-day theatricals, but the music was chaste, vivid with imagery, and perfect in form.With vast experience and deep involvement, Ramachandran has evolved a style of his own although the basic foundation is that of Semmangudi. There may be no ornamental detail but there is no confusion either. In essence, it is enjoyable music both for the common man as well as the connoisseur. However, the voice is a little husky and lacks depth at the lower octaves. Thankfully, this is fittingly compensated with excellent alignment with thesruti. In terms ofmanodharma sangithalikealapana, nerevalandswarakalpana, the episodes are engaging.Ramachandran believes strongly in conveyingbhavaand mingles it well with melody. There is no trickery, neither unnecessary technique. The selection was well thought out and maintained a neat balance. Commencing with a rarevarnaminsahanainadi thalam, he rendered it in bothchathusramandthisram.Brochevarevareinsiranjani,janakiramanainsudha simanthini, deva devainmayamalavagowlawere ala Semmangudi.Marivereof Shyama Sastri inanandabhairaviwas a good choice and the followingkalyaniwas an ideal selection thereafter. The choice of thekrithi, rama ni adukontivowas rather light weight. Had it been one inmisra chapu, the image would have been more impressive. Incidentally, thekrithiwas sung inrupaka thalam, while it generally is the convention to do it inadi thalam, thisra nadai.B.S. Narayanan on the violin is a reputed violinist and naturally his contribution added to the glamour to the concert. Since the entire format of the concert was basicallymadhyamakala,D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam and Nemani Somayajulu on the ghatam had a merry time and their combination was an added attraction.sssThe concert, unfortunately, was marred by unprecedented rain. The event was part of the Kalasagaram fest held at Keys High School.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042801480300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.