(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNew stars on the horizon
p3
sVnews
p4
VThanks to Sri Rama Lalitha Kala Mandira, the rasikas were treated to a feast of classical music. For the last 52 years, the Mandira has been doing great service in the propagation and promotion of Carnatic classical music by holding series of music festivals every year. During its recent Vasantha Sangeetotsava - 2007 held at Mangala Mantapa of the NMKRV College, Jayanagar, young musicians rose to greater heights in impressing the houseful audiences.The eight-day festival of music was an apt forum for young performers to launch their propaganda for higher recognitions.It was also proved that the future of Carnatic music is very safe and prospective in their hands. The packed houses daily accounted for the popularity of the Mandira's programmes.Young singer Pattabhirama Pandit has been a noted name. He combines in him a software engineer, talented and scholarly vocalist. His concern for classicism and tradition was unquestionable.Though his body language was difficult on the listener, his artistry was endearing. His singing was packed with bhaava and laya.Subtle musical imagination, intense sensibilities and sincerity of approach paid off rich dividends. His recital took off with a royal Kambhoji atta tala varna. Kamavardhini ("Raghuvara nannu"), Reetigowla ("Janani ninnu vina"), Lathangi (a very rarely heard Papanasam Sivan's "Piravaparam") ragas were stepping stones to rasaananda or musical delight.Bahudari ("Brova bhaarama") and Kuntalavarali ("Bhogeendra shayinam") established an intimate rapport with the rasikas.His expertise bloomed to the fullest extent in a demanding ragamalika raga, tana and pallavi comprising Shankarabharana, Todi and Darbar ragas.The pallavi ("Shankarabharanane alaitodi..", in which the names of the ragas were meaningfully woven into the pallavi line) was explored in the traditional format and the crisp swaras in the same order of ragas brought to the fore Pattabhirama's ingenuity and vidwath.In the same series and at the same venue another young but equally seasoned singer Chandanbala Kalyan regaled the listeners with her solid and pure classical music. The excellence borne out of varied experiences of singing was marked by Carnatic artistry, aesthetics and skills. Gifted with these requisite qualities Chandanbala caught the attention of the audience with a well-planned and equally well-executed concert.The atatala varna in Shankarabharana was weighty and provided a flying start. A rare krithi in Abhogi by Thyagaraja "Nannu brova inka" depicted the vocalist good taste.The elaboration of a detailed Kalyani raga was a beautiful and grand affair. The rendition of "Eta vunnara" illustrated depth and dimensions of Chandanbala's manodharma. The main item of the recital was a raga, tana and pallavi in Lalitha raga. The pallavi "Devi brova samaya" set to mishra nadai, trishra roopaka was presented in anuloma, viloma and other ornamentations like kaala bedha, gathi bedha etc.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032302040300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.