(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOf style and vigour
p3
sVnews
p4
VWhat made T.M. Krishna's performance at Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha outstanding was his commitment to provide the best of classical music. Every item he sang &#8212; the Kanada ata tala varnam &#8216;Nera Namithi,' Bilahari kirtana &#8216;Naa Jeevadhara' and &#8216;Sari Evvaramma' (Bhairavi) &#8212; was an assertion of his message that he had nurtured them as a responsible custodian. His exposition had the compelling combination of vocal vibrancy, style and vigour. Brimming with interpretative passion, resplendent flashes illumined the landscape of the ragas Bilahari and Bhairavi. It was not just skilled voice but lofty aspirations that helped him scale great heights from music's cultural base. His talent-conscious disciplined brilliance was harnessed to ecstatic singing technique. He justifiably reaped the rewards of his faith in natural ability.Krishna's uncanny insight into the core of ragas and kritis did a lot to uplift the concert. The vocal versatility carried the plenitude of breathtaking sangatis in the masterly piece &#8216;Naa Jeevadhara' with astounding precision and glowing grace. The build-up of the song from commanding heights was an inspirational journey to Krishna, the mridangam player Poongulam Subramaniam and to the listeners as well. The rendering was overpoweringly rich and the kirtana's structural grandeur solicited Krishna's attention.Lilting phrasesEarlier, the Bilahari raga alapana was magnificent and sumptuous punctuated with passage of piercing perception. Lilting phrases spread out on every side. The elucidatory progress of the raga came with the acquired kutcheri experience. There was no impetuous rush to mount sparkling sancharas in a raga like Bilahari. The way he rendered the raga and kirtana looked as if he was totally engrossed in scanning the ravishing aspects.If his Bilahari exposition was titillating, Bhairavi guided Krishna's manodharma by its deep delicacy. The alapana was full of sensitive touches framed with abundant relish. Tuneful succession of sancharas glided gently and firmly as if they took wings to hover over the octaves. He graciously espoused Bhairavi's specific aesthetics with felicitous flowing lines, delightfully first rate. His cultivated articulation accents sought peaks with tempting modulation.Krishna's sense of sahitya sentiments was well engraved in the handling of the Syama Sastri kriti &#8216;Sari Evvaramma.' The words, the form, the charm took complete possession of him to enlighten his involvement to go beyond the frontiers of Bhairavi sculpted in the song. Such was his niraval for the line &#8216;Parama Paavani Bhavani' that sounded the sacred and spiritual core of the life mission of vaggeyakaras.The success of the performance was not single-handed, but achieved with the assistance of H.K. Venkataraman (violin), Poongulam Subramaniam (mridangam) and Purushothaman (ganjira). The camaraderie between Krishna and Subramaniam completely enveloped &#8216;Naa Jeevaadhara.' The percussion support was precious with mridangam beats stunningly stirring. The punch was reverberating transforming it into laya profundity. This aspect underlined his value to the recital. Purushothaman was a willing partner sharing accompanying exposition. The thani was thunderingly patterned.There was lyrical warmth in the violin support extended by Venkatraman. In terms of intensity and quality his role was significant with balanced discriminatory technique. He rallied artfully, his soft phrasings answering Krishna's alapana promptings.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/01/stories/2010100151090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/01/images/2010100151090201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.M. Krishna
p14
ss.