(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe fingersmith and co.
p3
sVnews
p4
VSeveral years ago an enthralling performance of Zakir Hussain was received by a thunderous applause and to encapsulate his mastery, this is what the legendary Rukmini Devi Arundale said: "Zakir, do you have 10 fingers or a hundred?" to which the artiste replied in all modesty, "Madam, I have only ten, but my strength is from tens and thousands of blessings that I receive from stalwarts like you!"At the FAME India's annual fund-raising show `Bharatha - The feel of India' in the city last weekend, Zakir was all of this. The tabla did throb to captivate the evening that of course had some more notable moments of fusion from violinists Ganesh and Kumaresh, along with Taufiq Qureshi on percussion. It was a friendly musical exchange between the brothers of melody and the brothers of rhythm_ dexterous fingers keen to provide a special impact on children truly `special' for the show.The proceeds of the show would help FAME India (non-profit registered trust) pool in for special education, medical consultations and diagnostic assessments, therapies for behavioural modifications, vocational training, counselling interventions and provide recreational opportunities for holistic development.Earlier, Janaki Vishwanath, Managing Trustee, FAME India, said, "The show, `Bharatha - The feel of India' (in association with Rotary Club of Bangalore Central) symbolised Bhava, Raga and Thala taken from a tapestry of Indian culture."Flagging off with a speedy navaragamalika varnam, it was a rapid pace that showed only the hands moving on the violin and tabla in the increased kala pramana. Soon Ganesh and Kumaresh changed gears to arrive at Hamsadwani, a raga often used in fusions. If you are wondering why, the raga lends itself to both gamakas and straight swaras. But there are times such experiments just slip into mere noise and this number too was jarring on the ears, with the Kalinga Hall at Grand Ashok not too geared for acoustic perfection.But the best was yet to follow. Be it the soft handling of Hindolam or Charukesi by the violin brothers, or their deep understanding of presenting phrases in different tonal levels, or the manner in which the duo gave way to bring in both the tabla and other percussion, the interventions in vocal by Ganesh with the lovely kriti, "O Rama Ni Nama Yentha Ruchira" in Nadanamakriya_it was a session that offered restrained splendour.Taufiq was having fun, pounding on every piece of percussion around and creating pulse and tempo of varied kinds. His popular breath-control rhythm creating records for the breathless moments and voice rhythm is what makes him a class apart.The pulsating session by Zakir was enlivening, in that his upbeat mood had him explaining the emergence of Omkara with Lord Shiva's conch and Lord Ganesh's dhamaru. Zakir's recreation of his aural envisage of the episode from legendary tales was a synthesis that had to be seen to be believed. As the resounding thumps of his beat on the tabla gathered momentum and reached a crescendo to create an aura of the dhamaru, the booming resonance of the conch soon engulfed the hall with the maestro's master strokes! Wah Huzoor! The beat now was from the hall of claps.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/01/stories/2008020151070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.