(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVibrant, fast-paced swaras -- Sangeetha Lahari
p3
sVnews
p4
VMaster BalamuralikrishnaCarnatic classical vocalCarnatica (Rs. 125)Master Balamuralikrishna is one of the younger generation vocalists with praiseworthy talent who has fine-tuned his performing skills to commendable standards. Sangeetha Lahari is his audio CD produced by Carnatica with Nagai Sriram (violin) and Trivandrum Balaji (mridangam) as accompanists. The song list often sung on concert platforms by the followers of the Semmangudi tradition, begins with Dikshitar's "Vallabha Nayakasya" in Begada with swara passages in a spirited vein, ending with a simple korvai.The Saveri alapana, though fluent and facile, could have done with more vishranti with karvais that are vital to relaxed, pleasant listening. The violinist's essay is mature with the raga bhava upsurging quite convincingly.The vibrant rendition of Syama Sastri's "Sankari Sankuru" and the fast-paced swaras reflect the exuberance and enthusiasm of youth. Tyagaraja's "Marubalga" in Sriranjani continues to keep intact the vivacious mood. Kalyani is expanded with perfect sruti consciousness and the prayogas are all clear cut and melodic, indicating a perceptive mind. Sriram plays a satisfactory delineation. However, it would boost his alapana to better quality levels, if there were more pauses between the phrases. Swati Tirunal's "Pankaja Lochana" in misra chapu is a lucid version at the appropriate kalapramanam, the neraval and swarakalpanas reflecting the artiste's yen to give of his best in all the genres of the art.The mridangam solo by Balaji reveals his awareness of the challenges that an accompanist has to deal with Dharmapuri Subbarayar's "Parulana Matta." Sivan's "Idadhupadam," a Puranadaradasa devaranama in Madhuvanti, and Tirugokarnam Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar's tillana in Purvi are served as tasty dessert.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/30/stories/2006063002350600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.