(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMemorable music
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Rama Kala Vedike recently celebrated its 33rd music festival in memory of Late Sri Ramachandra Yavagal and conferred the prestigious Kalashringa award on Padmabhushan Vidushi Dr. N. Rajam.The evening session commenced with a tabla solo recital by the young maestro Satyajit Talwalkar, son and disciple of Pt. Suresh Talwalkar As the son of the two legendary musicians, Satyajit Talwalkar was aware of the heightened expectations of the connoisseurs and delivered a scintillating performance.  He made a dazzling presentation of the teentaal, a rhythmic cycle of 16 beats. He  explored the contours of teentaal, highlighting its myriad dimensions that are never heard in a tabla accompaniment to a vocal or even an instrumental recital. Talwalkar enunciated rare, highly complex and convoluted chakradhars with tremendous ease, producing an incantatory effect. His peshkars, kayadas and sonorous tihayis brought out the infinitesimally nuanced facets of teentaal. However, the lacuna was that Satyajit Talwalkar did not interact and establish a rapport with the audience. Satyajit Talwalkar was accompanied by Tanmay Abhay Deochake on the harmonium. Young Tanmay who has provided harmonium accompaniment to many luminaries  was noteworthy for his measured and soothing lehra accompaniment.The piece de resistance of the evening was indisputably Dr. Rajam. The award ceremony was followed by Rajam&#8217;s violin recital. The special attraction was that it was indeed a unique, spectacular recital which brought the three generations of violinists: Sangeeta Shankar, the daughter of Dr. Rajam and Nandini Shankar , the 16-year-old violin prodigy and the granddaughter of Dr. Rajam. The renowned tabla maestro Pt. Ravindra Yawagal accompanied the violinists. The trio left the audience spellbound with their sublime music. They commenced the recital with the beautiful  melody Rag Jog. In keeping with the tradition of gayaki ang, the vilambit khayal presentation was marked by a soothing alaap in cyclic avartans of the rhythmic cycle. Here, the astonishingly perfect sense of synchrony between the three generations of artistes was clearly discernible when they played consecutively, filling the avartans in a smooth, gliding succession. In the bol alaap and bol taan sections, the audience were enraptured by the clarity and velocity of young Nandini&#8217;s tans.  The concert soared to a magical crescendo when the artistes took up a lilting, lyrical drut teen tal bandish in the same raga &#8220;Sajan More ghar aayo, Daras piya hum payo&#8221;, immortalised by Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra and Ustad Rashid Khan.The ecstatic audience listened to the inimitable delineation of this khayal bandish of unsurpassable romantic beauty with bated breath as Rajam, Sangeeta and Nandini played the taans in succession, often dazzling the audience with uncommon, bewitching taan patterns and sangathis weaving a wonderful tapestry. Pt Ravindra Yawagal&#8217;s tabla accompaniment was remarkable for its crispness, mellowness and mastery.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/05/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/05/15/stories/2009051550750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/05/15/images/2009051550750301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSCINTILLATINGSatyajit Talwalkar
p14
ss.