(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConfluence  of styles
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe eagerly looked forward to musical feast in connection with Sri Ramanavami celebrations has created lot of artistic activity in and around the city. Various sabhas, organisations, committees, Maths etc, have been contributing in their own way towards the rewarding feast of music.The celebrations at Sri Rama Seva Samithi, Shankarapuram, began with an interesting vocal duet by Padma Adiga and Shankar Shanbhag. Padma is a seasoned Carnatic vocalist. Shankar is a skilful Hindustani singer.They were supported by S. Yashaswi (violin) and Sathya (mridanga) and Sateesh Polli (harmonium) and Gurumurthy Vaidya (tabla) respectively. Both the systems of Indian classical music had a parallel flow and all the artistes concerned did full justice to their duties.However, it wasn't a  jugalbandhi with both the styles remaining isolated of each other. They sang one after another sustaining the audience-interest. The alapanas, sahitya and swaravinyas by Padma were true to the tenets of Carnatic music. Shankar's embellishments were purely Hindustani.Shankar Shanbhag's rendition of Tulasidas' "Gayiye Ganapathim" (in an evening raga Marwa), Vidyaprasanna's "Bhaja Ramachandra" (Darbari Kaanada), "Dasana maadiko enna" (Bheempalas), "Ennantha bhaktaru" (Jetshyam), "Bande Hari gungana" (Bhairavi, Kabirdas) sent the audience into raptures with the authentic Hindustani flavour.Padma Adiga regaled the audience with her presentation of "Sri Mahaganapathi" (Athana, Wadiyar), "Rama embuva akshara" (Revathi), "Sharanu Ninage" (Mohana Kalyani ), "Ragi tandira" (Madhuvanthi) and others drew spontaneous applause from the qualitative audience.*****Seasoned dancer Ranjani Ganeshan Ramesh not only deserves to be commended for providing young dancers with an opportunity to exhibit their talents but also presenting an artistically elegant Bharatanatya along with her  daughter Daksha Ramesh.These happened in a programme arranged on the occasion of Shivarathri at Subhash Bhavana, Rajarajeshwarinagar under the auspices of Ponnambalam."O namah Shivaya", the dance-feature conceived, scripted, directed and danced by Ranjani was marked by an excellent group choreography, well defined and articulated angikas and a refined execution of laya.While Ranjani was at the helm of her expertise and excellence her little daughter Daksha handled the laya with great precision.The other dancers Ananth, Karthik Datar, Somu, Srinivas, Neeraja, Ashwini Rao and Vidyavathi also contibuted their talent to the success of the dance feature which highlighted the great virtues of the Lord Shiva.Episodes like Daksha yagna vinaasha among others left indelible imprint on the minds of the viewers.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/04/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/04/13/stories/2007041301810300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.