(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe language of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANEE KUMARIt was the concert of the season  -   perfect in every sense of the word. That the South Indian Cultural Association should begin its new year with such a stupendous recital augurs well for the reputed sabha. Call it a jugalbandi  or a fusion, the veena versus sitar, mridangam versus tabla was able to churn up as much  fervour among the viewers as a cricket match.Jayanthi Kumaresh was a wizard at the veena while Gaurav Mazumdar conjured up magic on the meends of the sitar. The percussionists Praveen (mridangam) and Aniruddha Mukherjee (tabla) were forces to reckon with. Together, the foursome made for a bounteous fare of instrumental music at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan recently.The ragas chosen were common to both strands of music &#151;  Carnatic and Hindustani classical likePanthuvarali-Poorvadhanashree,Misra ShivaranjaniandSindhu Bhairavi.Though the main course was thePoorvadhanashreeand its allied raga in Carnatic parlance (Panthuvarali), the concludingSindhu Bhairaviwas simply arresting. As Gaurav meandered through thedadra(of six beats) followed by teen taal (Adi talam), Jayanthi gave an equally brilliant parallel that seemed to merge with the sitar notes. Absolute, uniform clarity intara(higher octave) was the hallmark of the concert from the start to finish. At no point of time was there any scope for ambiguity of notes &#151;  they gushed like a stream in full flow. The effect was electrifying. It was difficult to judge whether the virtue of the raga made for the stupendous presentation or vice-versa.Jayanthi's intricate improvisations found a formidable match in her co-musician Gaurav. In a word, the veena and sitar spoke to each other in the language of music, which was heavenly. Her exceptional speed and stylish display did not allow a single syllable to get submerged in its run to a descending order. Result: an artistic, cascading effect ofswara kalpanas. The sitarist was par excellence in taking up the challenge thrown by her notes and answering them with deft magic through his fingers Thetaniavartanamwas a racy serve and volley between the two percussionists. Praveen's brimming enthusiasm and beat had the audience sitting up in excitement.  The event  left audience wanting for more such elating concerts.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/13/stories/2006011302000300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/13/images/2006011302000301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDOING THE DUET Jayanthi Kumaresh at the veena and Gaurav Mazumdar on the sitar.  PHOTO: K. RAMESH BABU
p14
ss.