(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn master's voice
p3
sVnews
p4
VInstrumental music and its techniques have evolved over the centuries through a close interaction between musicians and instrument-makers. During this process, structure and shape of various musical instruments have undergone considerable changes. A musician would like to play an instrument that suits his style and creative urges the best. No wonder that Ravi Shankar's sitar is very different from that of Vilayat Khan. Trained in the Seniya Beenkar tradition, he added ati-kharaj strings and a small gourd to his sitar and the instrument was fashioned by N.C. Mallick. When Ravi Shankar found the instrument too heavy, he went to Bishan Dass, a master instrument maker of Delhi. Bishan Dass, who was initiated into the art of instrument making by his father Rikhi Ram, made a compact, tone-perfect sitar for him and Ravi Shankar has been playing this very sitar for many years now.Bishan Dass passed away in 2007 at the age of 78. His younger son Sanjay Sharma established Sanjay Sharma-Rikhi Ram Vadya Parampara Foundation to carry forward and develop the tradition of making musical instruments. This past week, the Foundation held its first function to celebrate Bishan Dass' 82nd birth anniversary at India Islamic Centre. Sarod maestro Amjad Ali Khan and his wife Shubhalakshmi Khan graced the occasion and felicitated three well-known musicians &#8212; sarangi maestro Sabri Khan, sitar maestro Uma Shankar Mishra and his disciple Meera Prasad on behalf of the Foundation for their contribution to the cause of Indian classical music. That several well-known musicians such as the vocalist duo Rajan Mishra-Sajan Mishra, sitarist Prateek Chowdhury and sarod players Amaan Ali Bangash and Ayaan Ali Bangash were present in the audience clearly showed that Bishan Dass had earned tremendous goodwill, respect and love in the music fraternity.Three instrumentalists offered their homage to Bishan Dass through their recitals. The first to perform was Ravi Shankar's disciple Shubhendra Rao who began his sitar recital with the evening raga Puriya Dhanashree. His alap was a bit listless and infused with needless sentimentalism but the jod and jhala sections offered testimony to his solid training, musical imagination and command over his instrument. He made judicious use of tihais. After the alap-jod-jhala sequence, Rao played two gats set in Rupak and drut Ek tala respectively. His jhala in drut gat was especially impressive. Akram Khan of Meerut-Ajrada gharana provided competent accompaniment on the tabla while Ramesh Sharma played the tanpura.Ragas of ShivaSarangi maestro Ram Narayan's son Brij Narayan has over the years matured into a fine sarod player, having learnt both from his father and the late Ali Akbar Khan. Announcing that he would like to play one of the five ragas created by Lord Shiva, he chose Shankara and went on to alap-jod-jhala with feeling and dexterity. He followed the sequence with two gats set in Teen tala and Ek tala respectively. His systematic elaboration of Shankara in the alap section was an apt reminder of the Maihar heritage. He impressed with his tunefulness, imaginative phrasing and well-executed glides. Shankara is not a raga frequently chosen by Hindustani instrumentalists. Vocalists of Kirana gharana have a special fondness for this raga. As Brij Narayan's father Ram Narayan learnt from Kirana gharana stalwart Abdul Wahid Khan, he must have passed his taleem on to his son.Brij Narayan concluded his recital with another raga associated with Shiva and offered a brief auchar in Shivaranjini, followed by a lilting gat in the same raga. His jhala was particularly scintillating. Vinod Pathak, a seasoned tabla player, accompanied him with great elan prompting Brij Narayan for layakari. Ramesh Sharma played tanpura with Brij Narayan too.The evening drew to a close with a Lalitha veena recital by Acharya L. Ramashesh Vishwanath. In his opening remarks, he claimed that although this new instrument was crafted by Bishan Dass, it was not really man-made as he saw it for years in his dreams. Vishwanath said it came from Shree Chakra and was divine in origin. He played Kirwani and was ably accompanied by Akhtar Hasan on the tabla.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/18/stories/2011021850330300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/18/images/2011021850330301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSitarist Shubhendra Rao.
p14
ss.