(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA matter of the swaras
p3
sVnews
p4
VARUNA CHANDARAJUWhen you ask him how his background matters, noted musician Suhas Vyas, son of celebrated vocalist Pandit C.R. Vyas says it is a great fortune. Having a great guru at home was an advantage, he concedes. However, his long career has taught him that "commitment and riyaaz matters more than lineage and contacts." So, he's grateful that his famous father was also an uncompromising teacher who insisted on single-minded sadhana and pursing art for art's sake.C.R. Vyas himself would rise at 4.30 a.m. everyday and practise just one note, the shadja, for two good hours! Suhas recalls he didn't understand the purpose until he himself took to music when his father explained: "Sa is the basic note and mastery over it gives you command over all seven notes or saptaswaras. During this saadhana, you should inhale and exhale with Sa."Khayal gayaki can be taught but the creativity or raag-vistaar has to emanate from the student's own creativity. Suhas recalls how his father taught him Shuddha Kalyan with bandishes (compositions) in three sittings. And then asked Suhas to elaborate the raag. However, even after days of effort, Suhas felt inadequate. He returned to his father who, whereupon, said: "Remember those compositions I taught you? Just practise each of them one lakh times." That was staggering. But Suhas relentlessly practised day and night, humming them as he walked, ate and slept. Finally, he managed a satisfying raga elaboration. It did, eventually dawn upon Suhas that if one is engaged in constant contemplation of a raag, it will soon reveal all its aspects.Though Suhas was primarily a disciple and later began to accompany his father, his father encouraged him to seek out other learning experiences &#151;  by listening to all contemporary greats.This proved greatly educative, says Suhas, since learning from one's teacher is only the beginning. The rest of a musician's learning happens while he's a member of the audience during a maestro's performance, and, secondly, on stage while accompanying a senior artist.Having a good voice is hardly qualifying. Echoing his father, Suhas says: "One needs at least 10 if not 15, years of rigorous practice before taking the stage." The shastras mention 20 different aspects of Hindustani music &#151;  alaap, bol taan, bol alaap, etc.,&#151;  and each musician has a different area of excellence.However, every artiste must deliver the full value of a raag, Pandit Vyas would tell Suhas. "Your listeners deserve the best. Concentration and riyaaz are your duty both to your art and your audience."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601760200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/26/images/2007012601760201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSAADHANA SURELY Suhas Vyas believes that there are no shortcuts to success
p14
ss.