(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VInnovation within tradition
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKThe mark of progress of T.M. Krishna as a concert artiste is his increasing commitment to the core values of Carnatic music with heightened ability to consciously tap his manodharma linked to an obedient voice. His performance for Krishna Gana Sabha in the Gokulashtami series was intensely vigorous with the emphasis as much on tradition as on exploring new vistas of creativity.The way he rendered the kirtanas, "Seshachala Nayakam" (Varali), "Mokshamugalada" (Saramathy) and "Kamakshi" (Bhairavi swarajati) created the impression that he was on a journey to re-discover the past through present fascination. There was perceptive vigour and there were languorous movements too, trying to bridge the gap between his musical reflections and kutcheri demands. His interpretation was tasteful in concept and scholarly in exposition. But he failed to realise that there is as much beauty in diction  (of the sahitya) as in the raga alapana or swara prastharas.He handled two alapanas, Sahana ("E Vasudha") and Bhairavi. Through their alapana sancharas both Krishna and R.K.Sriramkumar (violin) displayed  Sahana's lyricism as they visualised it.It was a different ball game with Bhairavi.  There was an unleashing of vocal phrasings in tara sthayi forays from Krishna. It was a sheer delight to watch how Bhairavi emerged with all its beauty  at the hands of Sriramkumar, one vintage sanchara appearing after another. The vinyasa range was vast, violin tone enchanting bringing about resplendent shades. It spoke of the musical calibre and character of Sriramkumar's training and experience.The concert's pragmatic perception was manifest in the choice of kirtanas. Raja Rao on the mridangam followed in a style that suited the kirtanas.Robust vocalismGeetha Bennett Ramanathan's veena recital was more of a reproduction of robust vocalism than subtle  play.  Kedaragowla ("Venugana Loluni") and "Nannu Brovu" (Lalita)  were rendered in typical Ramanathan style through  strong meettu.In the alapana of both the ragas there were precise gamakas, the sancharas split leaving very little of continuity. Earlier, "Rama Nee Samana" (Kharaharapriya) and "Bandureethi" (Hamsanandam) were somewhat like straight band notes. T.V. Ramakrishnan (mridangam) and Adambakkam Shankar (ghatam) provided subdued accompaniment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/18/stories/2006081802560400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/18/images/2006081802560402.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VR.K.Sriramkumar.
p14
ss.