(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA pleasant interlude
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe vocal concert given by U.S.-based teenager Tadanki Anupama for Mummaneni Subba Rao Siddhartha Kala Peetham at Siddhartha Auditorium was a pleasant experience for music connoisseurs. Anupama, a resident of South California, is a disciple of Vidushi Padma Kutti and has already won repute as a promising singer. Anupama is the grand daughter of Dr Jandhyala Shanker, a former Mayor of Vijayawada.Anupama has a sweet, melodious voice and navigates in the threesthayiswith ease and proper modulation. Her voice is perfectly aligned insruti. She opened her concert withNavaragamalika varnamand followed it up withVatapiin Hamsadhvani, which concluded with goodswara kalpana. Next cameGanamurthein the raga, Ganamurthi, the third Melakarta. The keertana was neatly rendered with care taken in the handling thevivadi swaras. Anupama next rendered the popular pancharatna keertana,Endaro Mahanubhavulu,  sumptuously. A surprise selection was a beautiful ragamalika stringed with Mitra Ragas Ranjani, Sriranjani, Megha Ranjani and Janaranjani. The keertana, which carried raga mudras in Pallavi and charanams, was effectively sung by Anupama who showed great ease in switching over from one raga to the other.After singingKantajoodumiin Vachaspathi, Anupama took upSankarabharanamfor sub main and rendered a seldom heard keertana,Prananatha,adorning the keertana with fine raga delineation and kalpana swaras. The main item of the concert wasSamajavaragamanain Hindola. Well-planned raga and crisp swaras complimented the keertana. B. V. Durgabhavani, an experienced violinist, gave fine support to the singer and presented fine versions of Sankarabharanam and Hindola. At the end of the main item, there was a rousingtaniby percussionists Dandamudi Sumathi Ramamohan Rao (mridangam), M. Haribabu (ghatam) and S. Phanibhooshan (kanjira). An unexpected guest of the evening, Ghazal Srinivas, felicitated the singer on behalf of the Kalapeetham and Nagella Guruprasada Rao, secretary of the Kala Peetham, introduced the artistes.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/08/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/08/15/stories/2008081550290200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/08/15/images/2008081550290201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPromising singerTadanki Anupama.
p14
ss.