(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFine imagination
p3
sVnews
p4
VSwarasankula Sangeetha Sabha and Shri Rama Kala Vedike had jointly organised a Hindustani tabla solo and an instrumental jugalbandhi. Commencement after an inordinate delay of more than an hour proved tiring and trying.Aditya Kalyanpur playing his drum not only creates resonant beats (teentaal), but also prompts it to sing to the tune of the lehara (harmonium saathi - Sathish Kolli), and further caresses it to imitate the calls of birds. Exceptional feats made possible by absolute mastery over the instrument to effect tonal variations at microtonal levels.Be it a peshkar (slow) or a kaayada (medium) or a relaa (fast) he would intersperse the movements with artistic configurations of tabla mnemonics-parans. When this technical dexterity was blended with imagination bringing the rhythm passages to end in precise tihayis, the audience entered into a world of wonder expressing appreciations of genuine ardour.Jugalbandhi of Sitar (Prabir Bhattacharya) and Sarod (Shubhrata Chatterjee) accompanied by Aditya Kalyanpur (tabla) projected the kalakars in their full radiance: astounding proficiency and imagination amply strengthened by dexterity and grit.Nevertheless, a craving for more and more volume, though amplified the overall technical vibrancy, seriously jeopardised the melodic delicacies. Further, the general approach did not fully favor the inherent mood of the selected raga. Consider: The main focus was Charukeshi suited for a midnight rendition. It has an intrinsic element of pathos - not a maudlin melancholy, but a deep contemplative feeling - warranting a tender approach. In both alap and vilambit sections the artistes&#8217; imagination and involvement explored the potentialities of swaras (swara kaku) in their individual (relatively) capacities, before successfully fathoming into the dynamics of them in musical clusters (kshetra kaku). This finally beamed the beauty of the raga in its entirety (raga kaku).But the decisive stroke failed: in the drut section an excess emphasis on technique and rhythm profusions (layakaris) though flashed their skill and dexterity shattered the peaceful ambience created before; excitement was whipped to charge the lulling repose; a beautiful maiden with a lovely plait (Charukeshi) was thus deprived of her serene elegance.Madhu Kashyap gave his vocal concert as part of Shravana Yuva Sangeethotsava organised by Shruthimanjari Foundation.He has a mature voice which can extend over the desired range though occasionally it gets split, may be, being unable to cope with the artiste&#8217;s surging extempore while treading rough terrains: difficult sancharas and ragas.Consider Jyothiswarupini (Jyothiraga &#8211;Ramabhaktha Palika - Dikshitar).The young artiste managed successfully to elaborate the raga, but at the expense of a smooth flow of experience: a simple and direct narration of the text would have carried a better musical appeal.Of all the presentations, &#8220;Kausale Shri&#8221; (Gaurimanohari - Shrivatsa) stood apart in being polished and balanced by a scholarly competence. It featured an alapana, neraval (at Raghurama), a swarakalpana section and a thaniyavarthana.Younger accompanists M.S. Sughosh (violin) and R. Sanjay Tharanathan (mridanga) succeeded in following the lead artiste&#8217;s assertive style, and at the same time establishing their own expertise.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/09/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/09/07/stories/2007090751000300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/09/07/images/2007090751000301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSkilfulPrabhir Bhattacharya and Shubrata Chatterjee showed astounding proficiency and imagination, amply strengthened by dexterity and grit
p14
ss.