(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRaining music
p3
sVnews
p4
VT.M. Krishna, among the leading Carnatic vocalists of our time, sang to a packed audience at the Fort High School Ramanavami Music Festival last week. Extremely articulate and deeply intellectual, Krishna's music is intensely passionate too. Krishna, constantly raising the bar for himself and his listeners, sang several kritis in praise of Lord Rama.Bold and vibrant in his renditions, even as he conforms to the traditional cutcheri pattern, Krishna's imagination is of a rare order. His manodharma borders that of a creative artiste and a researcher; a strict adherent of tradition, he constantly explores the immense freedom one finds within it.Raga Shankarabharana formed the core of his concert &#8212; &#8220;Akshaya Linga Vibho&#8221;, a Muttuswami Dikshitar kriti in mishra chapu tala. The thinking musician cast a spell on the audience with his exquisite, highly evocative delineation, evolving and assuming fresh insights with each phrase. Krishna overwhelms the senses with his brilliance, but the nature of his creative process is such that it demands a total participation of the listener's intellect and emotion; his rendition challenges your merit as a connoisseur as well. Essentially what Krishna captures through his music is not simply the inherent drama or the intrinsic melodic brilliance of the composition, but also an attempt to map his own position in the huge canvas of the Carnatic music tradition. In the process, even if it doesn't produce the intended results, for a serious practitioner it's still a forward move. Krishna's conceptually rich rendition of Dikshitar's rare composition in Megharanjani &#8220;Megha Shyamam Shree Ramam Bhaje&#8221; was elevating.R.K. Shriram Kumar on the violin, Arun Prakash on mridanga and Anil Athreya on the khanjira were competent.DEEPA GANESHNeyveli Santhanagopalan's concert threw memories of his guru T.N.Seshagopalan's penchant for taking up Karnaranjani. Although Todi was given an elaborate treatment later, Karnaranjani was the highlight with its ever-so-enjoyable and descriptive phrases. He later took up the only evocative kriti available in the raga &#8220;Vanchadomune&#8221; of Muthaiah Bhagavatar. Said Santhanagopalan, &#8220;Although it is considered a minor raga with little scope for elaborate alapane, the raga's main phrases are enough to get your sensibilities experience the beauty of the scale. Manodharma should be utilised for ragas that put you on a sticky path too, not just for sampoorna ragas where one has all the potential for playing around.&#8221;The vocalists' faster paced ragamalika swaras in Kapi, Saaranga, Darbari Kaanada and Hamsanandi after the main piece brought the violin (T.K.V.Ramanujacharyalu) mridanga (K.V.Prasad) and ghata (Sukanya Ramgopal) in a stimulating tempo, again underlining Santanagopalan's love for packing in variety ragas in his offering.Ranjani GovindSriranjani Santhanagopalan, the young daughter of Neyveli Santhanagoplan was a pleasure to listen to. Sriranjani, a topper in academics, was extremely confident and displayed complete control over the art form. Trained under her father, Sriranjani has a lovely, felicitous voice. The difficult Kamboji she chose for elaboration and was lucid and eloquent. Sriranjani can achieve quite a lot with her flexible voice, but not once did she overplay it. Extremely well modulated, her rendition was vibrant.She followed the main piece with shorter compositions in Maand, Hamsanandi, Hindola and others. The evergreen &#8220;Adisidaleshoda&#8221; came with feeling and verve. Probably if the organisers had given a clear picture of the time on hand, she could have planned her concert better rather than pack it with so many short pieces.D.G.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/15/stories/2011041550870300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/15/images/2011041550870303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFull of promise Sriranjani
p14
ss.