(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrings of splendour
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram, hosted a melodious violin duet by Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and his sister Vijayalakshmi on the third day of the ongoing 42nd annual cultural festival of music, dance and drama at Key's High School.The artistes displayed high quality in their duet with aesthetic appeal as well as complex intricacies marked with perfect unison, balanced with melodious tonal quality of the instrument. It was a perfect musical treat for the rasikas as the concert went on for a marathon three hours recital with contrasting compositions.The duo began with a lovely varnam composed by their father Jayaraman in the raga Bouli which was well-executed with all the complexities done to perfection, setting the concert tempo.A brief Bahudari was then hummed for Thyagaraja's Brova bharama with lilting swarakalpana. Sri valli Devasenapathe in Natabhairavi was the next to come and was played with steady layam.Kannada was taken next and a brief ragam was played with essence for the noted Dikshitar krithi Sree Matru Bhutham in misra chapu. Here Krishnan showed his class act by choosing the swarakalpana in atheetha graham and played many interesting and tough phrases of swaram to perfection. This shows his creativity and scholarliness in this art. Kapi was taken for a detailed ragam wherein Krishnan brought out the nuances of the ragam in a nice way for Thyagaraja's Anyayamu seyakura. Saveri was another attraction of the concert and the ragam was detailed for a rare Thyagaraja item, Dharidapu, with neraval and swarakalpana.The concert was well-maintained in its true spirit by Manargudi Eswaran, the experienced mridangam artiste from Chennai, and K.V. Gopalakrishnan on the kanjeera. His tani contained complex patterns which was well-supported by the young and talented Goplakrishnan. Krishnan took RTP in the ragam Natakuranji and played it in a brief way again showing his matured knowledge.The concluding item were that of Gopalakrishna Bhagavatar's item followed Baro krishanayya a ragamalikai and finally concluded with Jayraman's beautiful Thillana in Dwijawanthi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/04/stories/2009120450530300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/04/images/2009120450530301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDOUBLE DELIGHT The violin concert by Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and Vijayalakshmi.
p14
ss.