(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA fitting tribute
p3
sVnews
p4
VCommemorating the death anniversary of Muthuswamy Dikshitar, Thyagaraja Aradhana Trust organised a talk on as well as a recital of the compositions of Dikshitar who is one of the musical trinity of Carnatic music along with Thyagaraja and Syama Sastr\u000ay.The singer chosen was Manda Sudha Rani, a vocalist of high esteem and wide repute. The programme was organised on last Saturday at Kalabharathi. K.V.S. Prasad on violin and G. Venkata Rao on mridangam (teachers at Kalabharathi School of Music and Dance) expertly accompanied her. Sudha got off to a traditional start by singing the Nata Raga compositionPavanaatmaja(Khandachapu) and followed it with Hindola KrithiNeerajakshi Kamakshiset in Roopakataalam. She explained howPavanaatmajacomposed in Nata is considered as an auspicious starting point of any concert. Then, she explained not only how the note Nishadam stands exploited to the hilt in the composition in Hindolam but also how the simple form of Roopakataalam in which it is set makes it most amenable for getting adorned with neravu and swaram in three tempos demonstratively. Then after singingNagagandhariset in the raga with the same name, she explained how Dikshitar descriptively indicated all praise for the attributes of the raga in the lyrics and adorned the musical set up demonstratively with them. Then she elaborated how most of the compositions of Dikshitar set to music in different ragas exemplifythe specific attributes of that particular raga and stand as guides for practising musicians.Expansively expatiating the Varali composition,Seshachalanayakam, she isolated many a musical nuance embedded in the composition which identify Varali as a Ghanaraga. In the Sankarabharana compositionAkshayalingavibho, she explored and expounded many an intricate nuance that typifies the raga and layabhava embedded in it fortifying the Sahitya bhava. While Prasad contributed grandeur in his following and playing his turns, Venkata Rao excellently supported the layabhava and also knowledgeably executed a vibrant thani. Sudha Rani concluded her talk and concert by singing a composition in the raga Surati.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/10/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/10/30/stories/2009103050330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/10/30/images/2009103050330201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRemembering greatnessManda Sudharani rendering Dikshitar songs.
p14
ss.