(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich aural treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Guru holds the highest position of respect and love in the Indian ethos and psyche. This is not only because of the sheer knowledge that he bestows but more so due to the direction that he is able to provide, as The One who has already tread vari\u000aous paths and walked multiple journeys to become The  Guru. The benevolent hand of their gurus was visible all through the concert of Lalgudi GJR Krishnan and Karthik Seshadri. Krishnan, the son andshishyaof the maestro, Lalgudi G. Jayaraman presented the Carnatic style on the Violin while Karthik Seshadri, the disciple of the legend Ravi Shankar presented the Hindustani style on the Sitar.Krishnan started off the concert by playingKarunai Seyyavendumin Rasikapriya, the 72nd of the Melakarthas.This is a composition of Koteeshwara Iyer, who has composed songs in all the 72 Melakartharagas. He followed it up with a quick butbhava-filledalapanaof Suddha Dhanyasi, presenting a complete picture of theragain a nutshell. He playedNarayana Ninna Naama, a composition of Purandaradasa capping it with elaborate and briskKalpana Swarams.Then Karthik played the beautiful Shyam Kalyan, an eveningraga. He played theaalapin the Beena ka Dhang. Theaalapwas remarkable for its richness and style of presentation. He followed it up with ajodin a cycle of 11 beats.The main piece of the day was raga Charukesi in which Krishnan and Karthik played a detailed and  delightfulalapanatogether. GenerallyJugalbandiconcerts turn out to be two completely different players playing one after the other rather than playing together. Here Krishnan and Karthik built the edifice of theragapiece by piece and did it together. Charukesi by itself is an extremely enchantingragaand when it is played in two varying styles (Carnatic and Hindustani) in two different breed of instruments (bowed and plucked) the effect was soothing and exhilarating at the same time.TheThaniavarthanam, the solo part of the percussionists, was played by Neyveli Narayanan on the Mridangam and Subhankar Banerjee on the Tabla. It turned out to be a very competent and scholarly display without relegating to any theatrics at all.The concluding piece of the concert was the raga Sindhubhairavi / Sindhibhairavi. Thealapanabrought out the varied facets of this popular raga. This was pursued by a wide range ofragaseach as colourful as the performing team - Natakurunji, Kalyana Vasantham, Nalinakanthi, Desh, Hamir Kalyani, Saranga.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/13/stories/2009031350780300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.