(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VChords of harmony
p3
sVnews
p4
VPREMA MANMADHAN AND K. PRADEEPThe uncle-nephew duo charmed the packed Kalikkotta Palace crowd at Thripunithura with a scintillating new fangled violin concert, which yet kept to the traditional mould. For B. Sasikumar, violin maestro, and Balabhaskar,  music director, whose guru is his uncle, has begun a concert series jointly, at select sabhas. This one was held as part of the Maruti Sangeetolsavam conducted by Sree Poornathrayeesa Sangeetha Sabha.With the entertainers sitting on the not-too-elevated stage and listeners all around, it had the effect of a chamber music concert though the sound system was very much there and the violins were both electrified. When Changanassery Harikumar (mridangam) and Sudheer (ghatom) had finished their sound tests, Sasikumar called all of them to tell them what he had planned for that concert. He was to introduce a complex Chaturangam tala and wanted Harikumar and Sudheer to know exactly how that was going to be. He asked the students gathered around to be seated in the front row and follow the tala pattern along with the musicians.Shades of the ragaThe Chathurangam tala was used in Thodi, the main raga of the evening. Sasikumar was in his element as he improvised, bringing out all the shades and mood of the raga. And just when they had finished  the percussionists took over. They performed the `thani,'  finishing off in thunderous style.  Sasikumar and Balabhaskar started off with a combination of two varnams in Sree and Pantuvarali ragas that provided just the kind of start for a racy, consistently fluent concert. `Ganganapathe...' in Hamsadwani and `Mamava sadavarade...' in Natakurinji stood out for the dexterity with which the violinists brought out the `raga lakshanas.'The cascading coordination and perfect understanding between the two violinists was what made the concert pleasing. When they played Ahari or Dvijavanthi, it was a pleasure to see Balabhaskar complementing his guru at every phrase in his own signature style.The Muthuswamy Dikshitar kriti `Sarasamukhi...' in Gowdamalhar and the Tyagaraja krithi `Marukelara...' in Jayantashri stood out for the near perfect exposition of raga and Sasikumar's ability to clearly bring out the `sahitya' in the kritis. The duo's kalpanaswaras were crisp, they portrayed the beauty of the ragas by embellishing it with creative neravals and impromptu sangathis that had the audience in raptures.Sasikumar and Balabhaskar rounded off the concert with two light pieces. The first one, a Sasikumar masterpiece, `Baro Krishnayya...' by Kanakadasa, was  outstanding. The ragamaalika, set in Maand, Bilahari, Peelu and Jaunpuri, was soaked in devotion as the two violins took turns to weave intricate, beautiful patterns. This was followed by `Krishna nee begane baro...'Rare performerIt has been some time since Sasikumar performed owing to personal reasons, but now, he will not accompany any vocalist, he said. He had played for the likes of K.J. Yesudas, Dr. Balamuralikrishna and Neyyatinkara Vasudevan for many years, but now, he feels, the change in the concert format to a shorter duration does not suit his style.Moreover, Sasikumar loves teaching music, which he finds fulfilling. He also invented a new raga, called Gurupriya for the krithi, `Pranadoshni muda ...' Apart from music, his interests in writing and acting is little known. Making miniature musical instruments with thermocol is a hobby, which he loves.He said Balabhaskar's decision to go solo and create music with a band was a good idea. Balabhaskar says he always looked forward to playing with his uncle and guru. Their technique of playing fast and melodious pieces in turns keeps the audience hooked on to the music.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/02/stories/2007030200980300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/02/images/2007030200980301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VELECTRIFYING: B. Sasikumar and Balabhaskar charmed the audience with  a scintillating violin concert that was a blend of tradition and innovation.
p14
ss.