(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEast meets west
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a different and a distinct jugalbandi concert at the Ananya auditorium featuring the State's ace vocalists R.A. Ramamani with the noted American jazz saxophonist Charlie Mariyo. The programme was presented during the annual music festival of the Karnataka College of Percussion. Singing her usual 5½ pitch she could match her voice with the tone of the saxophone. The voice easily merged with the instrument. Ramamani's voice modulations and resonance were purely Carnatic and yet could suit the demands of the saxophone. On the other hand, Charlie was at home in negotiating with the subtle gamakas (graces) of Carnatic music and the sahitya portion of the music was well taken care of. With his dedication and keenness he had fashioned the required style of blowing in giving shape and form to the music.The concert began with the Hamsadhwani varna and "Gajavadana Karunasadana" (Sriranjini). The joy with which played these compositions continued to pervade the next krithi "Rama bhakti samrajya" (Bangala). Ramamani's delineation of Yagapriya (31st melakartha) for a krithi by Bellary Seshagiri Achar "Rama Rama eni" was a fine exercise. The notation ("nidapamagarisa padanigari nirinidapa") in Keeravani raga was impressive. The singer sang it in akaaras also. Charlie Mariyo and Rama dazzled in the rendition of Shyama Sastry's "Birana varalichchi" (with alapana, neraval and kalpanaswaras) followed by "Balambika" (Manoranjini), "Adaddella olite aayitu" (Ritigowla) and Hemavathi ("Sri Kantimathim"). The accompanying artistes Nalina Mohan (violin), V.R. Chandrasekhar (mridanga), Ramesh (ghata) and Gururaj (ghata) were in their top form.*****In the fourth Navarangapraveshotsava held at Ravindra Kalakshetra under the joint auspices of Sri Vivekananda Kala Kendra and Dept. of Kannada and Culture Arpana Sastry, a proud disciple of Guru Radha Sridhar brought laurels to her Guru with her neat and tidy Bharatanatya. Admirable anga shuddhi, good hold over laya and the right understanding of the art and technique of Bharatanatya made her dance glow with success. The opening Muralidhara kauvuthuvam ("Bhavayami Gopala paalam") she eulogized Lord Krishna in her meticulous dance language. She excelled in nritta, nrithya and abhinaya in the presentation of a varna ("Bhuvana sundarana kare tare") in Khamach raga addressed to Lord Krishna. Young Prasannakumar (nattuvanga), Ramesh Chadaga (vocal) and Chandrasekhar (mridanga) lent lively support.*****Veteran Guru Radha Sridhar needs to be complemented for her zeal in holding the "Rasa Sanje" dance festival annually and providing opportunities for the young dancers. The 37th "Rasa Sanje 2006" was held for three days at the ADA Rangamandira. Day one featured Anil Kumar and Gayatri. Good understanding between the dancers and sincerity of purpose of the dancers fetched rich dividends. Aided by a seasoned music ensemble, Srimathi and Gayathri regaled the audience with their presentation of "Idene sakhi" (Behag: Virahothkhanthita nayika) and "Parashakthi janani" (Hamsadhwani) respectively.*****Tall and well built Archana Sastry, wife of a talented Carnatic vocalist Ravikiran, exhibited her well-honed artistry in depicting Tyagaraja's krithis. "Giriraja suta tanaya" (Bangala) augured well for the beautiful Bharatanatya. Variety and vivacity marked her adavus, jathis and teermanas. The ever popular and first of the Pancharathna krithis in Nata raga "Jagadaanandakarakathe" was the major item of the rendition. Archana beautifully dwelt upon the line "Omkaara panjara shiki" and demonstrated the greatness of Sri Rama in an explicit manner. She established an intimate rapport with the rasikas in the portrayal of "Kadagola taarenna".M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033102290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033102290301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VWELL HONEDArchana Shastry's dance recital was marked by variety
p14
ss.