(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGlowing rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeteran violinist Prof. H.V. Krishnamurthy performed for Hamsadhwani Creations led by the renowned singer M.S. Sheela during its three-day seventh anniversary festival held at Gayana Samaja auditorium. Prof. HVK and a noted flautist-cum-maker of musical instruments G. Rajanarayan were conferred with Hamsadhwani Puraskara. The eighth edition of audiocassettes containing the krithis by Sri Jayacahamarajendra Wadiyar under the title of Vaggeyakara Vaibhava rendered by M.S. Sheela was also released.Along with his son H.K. Venkataram, a delightful violin duet unfolded.  The opening number was the Nattakuranji varna. "Maha Ganapathim manasa smarami" (Nata) in Madhya laya was crisp. HVK poured all his musical abilities into the delineation of Ananadabhairavi raga. It was a fine rendition brimming with all the essential ingredients. The chittaiswaras and the krithi "Marivere" glowed forth with veteran's touches. It was a fine experience to watch Venkataram providing the missing links.After this, Venkataram took over from his father and excelled in playing "Baagayanayya" (Bindumalini) and raga, tana and pallavi. Dexterously accompanied by Tumkur B. Ravishankar (mridanga) and N. Amrith (khanjari) the seasoned violinist could successfully explore the artistic possibilities on his violin.Suswaralaya under the able leadership of a versatile percussionist H.S. Sudheendra is doing a great service to the field of Carnatic music in various ways. The seventh anniversary was celebrated with a five-day music festival at Sri Rama Lalitha Kala Mandira's auditorium.The third edition of a well-planned and well-presented directory of musicians was released on the inaugural day. Compact discs of Nalina Mohan (violin), Bangalore Brothers (M.B.Hariharan and Ashok, vocal duet), Chandanbala Kalyan and K.N. Roopa (vocal) were also released. Veteran mridangist of Mysore P.G. Lakshminarayana was honoured with the title of "Swaralaya Shrunga".This was followed by a highly enjoyable vocal recital of M.S. Sheela with accompanists Akkarai Subbalakshmi (violin), Tumkur B.Ravishankar (mridanga) and B.N.Chandramowli (khanjari) vying for equal honours. Sheela's concert began with Darbar varna beautified by a demanding kaala and jati bedhas. "Garudagamana samayamide", Muthaiah Bhagavatar's "Ambavani" (Keeravani with neraval and swaras), Poorvi Kalyani (encompassing tri-sthayis, "Ramanatham") and a rarely heard Thyagaraja krithi.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/24/stories/2006112401870300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/24/images/2006112401870301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEXCELLENTM.S. Sheela
p14
ss.