(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VProves his prowess as vocalist
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANAmong the many aspects that have contributed to the unique standing of Kalakshetra is the extent to which this premier institution has nurtured the co-existence of sangeetham and natyam as twin arts with a pulse that beats as one. That they evolved in dynamic symbiosis is a truth borne out by an artiste of the calibre of Adyar K. Lakshman, whose creativity finds expression through dance as well as music. While he has won innumerable awards and worldwide acclaim as a master choreographer and nattuvanar, not many rasikas are aware of his prowess as a vocalist. His talents honed under the watchful gaze of stalwarts such as Budalur Krishnamurthy Sastrigal, T.K. Ramaswami Iyengar and Tiger Varadachar, he also had the privilege of learning compositions directly from Mysore Vasudevachar and Papanasam Sivan.This was evident in the presentation of the rare Chatur ragamalika tuned in Khamas, Behaag, Kapi and Darbari Kanada (Mysore Vasudevachar).What should the rasika seek to imbibe from such increasingly rare encounters with artistes of the old school? First, it is an opportunity to internalise one's deepening perception of swaanubhava. A perception that can guide the listener to look beyond the limitations of voice and packaged presentation to a wealth of bhava, waiting to be discovered. This discovery is its own reward as one captures the precious glint of an idea, an impression embedded in a turn of phrase or an inflection curved just so.In Lakshman's vocal recital at the Musiri Chamber Concert Circle, what one looked for and found was a pervasive mellowness and warmth as the artiste paid homage to the entities of kriti and composer.Short preludeThe reverential tone set in with the opening strains of Tyagaraja's Arabhi ratna, `Saadinchane.' A short prelude introduced a non-strident, gentle Atana eminently suited to the tone of Tyagaraja's `Naradagana lola.' A brisk `Marivere' (Shanmukhapriya, Patnam Subramania Iyer) preceded Mysore Vasudevachar's sparkling composition `Raa raa raajeevalochana' (Mohanam), the charanam taken at an accelerated pace. Tyagaraja's `Maarubalga' (Sriranjani) next provided a change in gait. The Kalyani alapana with its measured madhyamakala phrasing and bhava-steeped glides prepared the ground for Mysore Vasudevachar's tribute to Tyagaraja in the kriti `Srimadadi Tyagaraja guruvaram.' The neraval and crisp melkala kalpanaswaras at `Sakalaloka' flowed with felicity. Refreshingly, `Paridana micchite' (Bilahari) was not the usual hurried exercise, but followed a medium kalapramana. Bhairavi raga, the main piece, shone with sensitivity.Prayogas were rich with insight and rounded gamakas. The neraval was a wonderfully natural extension of the sahitya at `Deva deva' and the kalpanaswaras a study in subtlety.The violinist, M.A.Krishnaswami, wove a fabric that effortlessly carried forward the mood of the expositions. Ganapathy Raman's percussive skills on the mridangam were rejuvenating.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802741000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802741001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAdyar K. Lakshman.
p14
ss.