(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhistle wiz wows with Carnatic recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VA. RAMALINGA SASTRYSimulating the effect of a flute recital by way of whistling, that too in adherence to the traditional format, can be hailed as a unique achievement in the firmament of Indian classical music. Komaravolu Siva Prasad, programme officer in the Department of Culture, Government of AP, has done just that. He has more than a thousand concerts to his credit all over the globe, including the Festival of India in USSR in 1987-88.With the release of an LP record, five CDs and an equal number of cassettes, he has found a place in the Limca Book of World Records in 1991.Prasad enchanted everyone with his recital at Kalabharathi for Sri Vijaya Thyagaraja Sangeetha Sabha, the oldest in the city. The repertoire for the evening comprised Dikshitar'sVaathaapiganapathim(Hamsadhwani) withraagamandswaram, Muttaiah Bhagavataar'sSaarasamukhi(Gowdamalhar), a brief elaboration ofAtukaaraadani(Manoranjani),Tulasidalamulache(Maayamaalavagoula),Prakkalanilabadi(Kharaharapriya) andNagumomuganaleni(Abheri), interspersed withNiravadhisukhada(Ravichandrika) andBrochevarevare(Sriranjani), all compositions of Thyagaraja.Spirited accompaniment by B.S. Narayana on violin, D.S.R. Murthy on mridangam, S. Hanumantha Rao on ghatam, Harjit Singh on tabla and G. Satyasai on morsing, the concert made for soul-stirring music. Thetanithat followed and a couple of western tunes (Wedding bellsandCome September) were scintillating pieces.Scholarly `layavinyasam'In another event, a short recital on violin by K.V.S. Prasad, a prelude of sorts to the main show oflayavinyasamby Guntuku Venkata Rao on mridangam, marked the cultural meet organised in Mihira Dhyanamandiram recently. Themandiram, which attracts a large number of people of all age groups and all walks of life for its free homoeopathic clinic, yoga and meditation centres, is managed by M.R.L. Rao in Visakhapatnam. With the co-operation extended by the founder secretary of Royal Cultural Academy, Jampana Kumara Varma, Rao organises recitals of devotional and classical music once every month on one of the the Sunday evenings.After starting his recital withMohanavarnam, Prasad went on to playMahaganapathim(Naata),Sarasamukhi(Goudamalhar) and a brief but scholarlyraagam taanam pallaviafter which Venkata Rao executed the thrillinglayavinyasamon mridangam. M. Sridhar on ghatam, Y.P.S. Madhubabu on kanjira, P. Ramesh on tabla and G. Ramesh with morsing gave good support.Trained by noted mridangist G.V. Subbaraya Sarma, Venkata Rao passed the diploma examination in mridangam with distinction and thus received the Best Student Award instituted in the name of T.S. Mani Iyer for that year. He made a name for himself providing accompaniment to renowned artistes like Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Dwaram Durga Prasada Rao, T.S. Seshagopalan, Malladi Brothers and others. Even while working as a lecturer in mridangam in Dwaram Venkata Swami Naidu Kalakshetram, he honed his skills under the tutelage of the esteemed V. Kamalakara Rao of Rajahmundry.He visited Canada and USA as an accompanist to Dwaram Mangatayaru (violinist) and vocalist P.V.S. Seshaiah Sastry besides Malaysia and Singapore with the noted danseuse G. Krishnaswetha. It was a thrilling experience listening to thelayavinyasam. The maestro went about the beats with perfect harmony bringing up a variety ofbholesinchaturasramandtrisramthat led to traverses in theGopuchchayathipattern inMisrachapubefore he concluded with theMoharamuktai. The others who accompanied him proved to be his peers on the respective instruments in their turns.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/28/stories/2005102801710200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/28/images/2005102801710201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VNATURAL SYNC Siva Prasad whistles away.
p14
ss.