(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSome homage, some notes
p3
sVnews
p4
VA series of classical concerts was organised in Varanasi this month by Kala Prakash,  a music organisation known for its serious concerns. The artistes included Indrani Mukherjee, Irshaad Khan and Ashim Chowdhury. The soulful concerts, staggered over\u000a three days, left an imprint on the hearts of the listeners. Pandit Ramashraya Jha, a senior classical vocalist from Allahabad, popularly known as the teacher of several talents including Shubha Mudgal, passed away on January one in Kolkata. It was befitting to pay the stalwart homage in Varanasi.  His disciple Indrani Mukherjee cfrom Kolkata to  performed at here for the first time.Indrani started her recital with a tuneful Yaman that unfolded the aesthetic layers of this age-old raga in an energetic way.  Besides Pandit Jha, Indrani has learnt music from her mother, aunt, and maternal grandfather Sanjib Banerjee. Her listeners appreciated her skilled and nuanced performance.Indrani was well accompanied on the tabla by Apurva Mukherjee from Kolkata. Apurva has learnt from tabla maestro Pandit Shankar Ghosh and this tutelage was evident in his performance. Indrani expressed the cheez of Kolkata baj that has been popularised by Shankar Ghosh. She finished her recital with a thumri. Though she is taking lessons from Purnima Chowdhury of Banaras gharana, her thumri did not steal the hearts of Banarasis.Next on the cards was a sitar recital by Ustad Irshaad Khan at another venue. Irshaad belongs to great Imdadkhani gharana. He is the son of noted sitar exponent Imrat Khan, the younger brother of Ustad Vilayat Khan. He  began his  recital with Yaman Kalyan. This is a complex evening raga with both madhyam-shuddha and tivra. Ustad Vilayat Khan likes this raga and coincidently has played it five times on his sitar on different occasions in Varanasi.While Irshaad follows the techniques of Imdadkhani gharana, the emotions he evokes are different. Although he too sings while playing the sitar (typical of Imdadkhani gharana), his strokes narrate the definite emotions of this raga differently.  He tries to establish the essential nature of the raga in his own way but sometimes he misses the simplicity of the raga.Similarly, his thumri, though well sung at the concert, did not match the finesse of Imdadkhani gharana. But Irshaad left a mark musically by delivering some inherent styles developed from his father. Rajneesh, a young disciple of Pandit Chhotelal Mishra of Banaras gharana, accompanied him on the tabla quite skillfully.Finally, there was a sitar recital by Ashim Chowdhury with a different touch at yet another venue. An ICCR empanelled artiste, Ashim also came from Kolkata. He presented ragas Vasant, Bahar and Khamaj in a distinguishable manner and with clear notes. Each note and stroke could be easily identified on the strings. But he has to master the mandra and madhya saptaks. Lalit Kumar accompanied him on the tabla enthusiastically.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/27/stories/2009022750720200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/02/27/images/2009022750720201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPAYING HOMAGE Vocalist Indrani Mukherjee. PHOTO NAGARA GOPAL
p14
ss.