(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUnsung star
p3
sVnews
p4
VIT WAS the day to hail an unsung hero. Poornathrayeesa Sangeetha Sabha organised a function to pay tributes to Vaikom Vasudevan Nair and his wife, Thankam Vasudevan Nair. Both of them were renowned theatre activists.Carnatic musicians Mavelikara Prabhakaravarma and Mavelikara Velukutty Nair, music director M.G. Radhakrishnan, actor Suresh Gopi, and the Travancore Devaswom Board Chairman, G. Raman Nair, spoke.  Sreevalsan J. Menon received the award instituted in honour of Vaikom Vasudevan Nair from Suresh Gopi.ConcertThe function was followed by a concert by Sankaran Nambudiri. He is a vocalist whose performance depends on the audience. An inspiring audience can spur him to touch peaks of excellence. He seems to have been inspired on this occasion.Nambudiri's recital was an ideal blend oflakshyaandlakshana. When a good vocalist is accompanied by the best in Kerala, one could not ask for more. The grandeur of Mavelikara Velukutty Nair's mridangam was complemented with precise phrases by Thripunithura Radhakrishnan on the ghatam. `Gajarajana rakshithoham' in Arabhi in misra chappu thalam made for an auspicious start. The elaborate swaras never failed to ignite that verve of enthusiasm in the audience. It has become quite habitual for the vocalist to include Tamil compositions in the initial stages of a concert. This time, he chose `Kaana Vendamo' of Papanasam Sivan in Sreeranjani.  A more restrained elaboration of Dhanyasi and the Thyagaraja kriti `Neechithamu Nischalamu' followed. `Enthara neethana' in Harikamboji gave a new dimension to the concert. The vocalist performed with aplomb, elevating the piece with emotional finesse and finish. `Varanarada Narayana' in Vijayashree was followed by an elaborate delineation of Sankarabharanam.PercussionThe much-awaited thani by Velukkutty Nair and Radhakrishnan lacked planning, yet stood apart for the high level of professionalism.They  maintained a sober dignity in their playing. `Jagadodharana' in Kapi, the Swati Tirunal padam `Aliveni enthu cheyvoo' in Kurinji too were two other numbers that stood out. `Kosalendra' in Madhyamavati was the last piece to be presented.Sankaran Nambudiri, earlier in his speech, had recalled that he had visited an ailing Vaikom Vasudevan Nair, when the former was a boy of 14.The maestro had blessed him saying that he would have a bright future.After hearing this youngster, we know that his words have come true.HAREESH BALBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/11/stories/2005021101980300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/02/11/images/2005021101980301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSankaran Nambudiri's recital was an ideal blend  oflakshyaandlakshana.
p14
ss.