(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA musical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IyengarContinuing the Kalasagaram's Annual Festival, Sanjay Subramanyam participated in the vocal music on the fourth day. Kumbakonam Gopinath accompanied Sanjay on the violin, Neyveli Venkatesh on the mridangam and Trichy Murali on the ghatam. When it comes to weighing up the performance of Sanjay Subramaniam, an ecumenical wisdom and contained confidence would be needed to answer modestly and faithfully his acumen. This is because no other artiste has equalled him in clarity or force of style, in directness and pungency of phrase. He has genial scorn for repetitive recipes, an ardent refusal to cripple with worthless inventiveness in the form of gimmicks but bespeaks of a unique talent. His art is disciplined and academic, majestic in orderly splendour and unsurpassed in artistic finish. Given a richer voice, he would have worked wonders.The concert was an outstanding example of what excellence and quality can be.  The classicata tala varnaminRitigowlawas the commencing item.NenaruncherainSimhavahinibuilt up the cadence. RagaPantivaraliwith the brisk phrases and distinctive combinations was followed with attractiveneravaland thumping combinations inswarakalpanain thekriti,Siva siva enaradastimulated the audience with delight. The ingenuity of Sanjay was evident when he introduced a piece ofmallariin the ragaGambhira Naatai. Amallariis a rhythmic composition (sollu) almost akin to athillanabut devoid of lyric. Sanjay rendered it inthrikalamand won the applause of the audience.Fine fluteThe following day Jayaprada Ramamurthy played flute accompanied by Peri Sriramamurthy on the violin, Lakshminarayana Raju on the mridangam, Madipakkam Murali on the ghatam and Shyam Kumar on the kanjira. Jayaprada is one of the outstanding flute players among the younger generation and has made a mark in a short time. Confidence, clarity of style, richnada, an immaculate sense of rhythm and wealthy repertoire are Jayaprada's assets.The passionate desire of contemporary artistes to indulge in richly rephrased and choreographedkoruvaisinswarakalpanahas reached such bizarre proportions that it is proving aberrant and repulsive. Jayaprada is no exception in this inane work out. The exertion is more manifest with flute players. It all started with Mali, although his efforts were projected towards a rhythmic burlesque, but the present-day artistes have picked up the wrong end of this endeavour. Jayaprada is an excellent artiste, but she ought to get into communication with her audience and carry them with her.The concert commenced with the famousvarnaminBhairaviset toata talam.  Akrithiof Purandara Dasa inHamsadwanifollowed and built up the tempo.Ganamurthein the ragaGanamurthiwas a routine rendering. The concert gained some credence in her playing an attractive episode ofVasantha.Thekrithiof Dikshithar,Brihadambikayaiwas well received.Kambojiwas selected for elaborate dealing and it came off very well.Simhendramadhyamawas chosen for elaboration and it was neatly done, bringing out the delicacies and nuances of the raga. Thepallaviset tothisra jathi jhampa taladisplayed the scholarship of the artiste. To accompany instrument, and flute in particular, calls for dexterity and concentration. In taking care to do an effective job, a violinist under the circumstances underplays. It was the situation with Peri Sriramamurthy who accompanied on the violin. Lakshminarayana Raju is a veteran on mridangam and he elevated the concert to higher status.Sisters impressPriya Sisters (Shanmukhapriya and Haripriya) who sang the following day have shot to fame all in a sudden about a decade ago. They are good singers but to attribute enormity to their singing is a fallacy.  There has been a tendency in recent times to put the emphasis rather on the artiste as a craftsman than the art as such. In the process, artistes like the Priya Sisters tend to impress with overemphasis of the grotesque element in a scherzo section and neglect somehow to turn it into music.  Their music flows effortlessly but totally lacks spiritual feeling, emotional expression and fertile, and enduring melody.Most of the items they selected had nothing to speak highly about &#151;  neither art, nor technique, neither expressiveness nor delicacy. The expertise of artiste in Carnatic music is revealed in his/hermanodharma(creative) music, which consists ofalapana,neravalandswarakalpana. With a modicum of ability and relentless practice, anybody can render songs that are taught and learnt with the help of notations. The effort of the sisters in all these facets was juvenile, mechanical and repetitive. There was little or noneravalin the entire concert.The performance commenced with theragamalika varnam,Valachivachchi. A Purandra DasakrithiinHamsadwanifollowed it.Alapanaof the ragaHarikamboji(Ramanannubrovara) by Haripriya started well but soon crumbled with needless breezy and repetitivesangathisand with no design or structure. The itemSri Kamalamba jayathi&#151;  anavavarna krithiof Dikshithar in the ragaAahiriwas indeed the best presentation in the entire concert.The good effort was soon aborted by the introduction of the song,Swagatham Krishna, inMohana, which resembledbhajana sangitham; the common listener lapped it up while the connoisseur lamented. Thealapanaof the ragaShanmukhapriyaby Shanmukhapriya was below average. Haripriya who took over half way through, added some colour to it. ThekrithiParvathinayakanewas a routine exercise. In the RTP, inMadhyamavathitoo, if thealapanaby Haripriya was middling, thetanamfell short of basics. Thepallaviset toKhandajathi thriputa talamwas mediocre. Ragavendra Rao who was on the violin was also run of the mill. It was only the mridangam version of Satish Kumar that proved worthy in the entire concert.Unparalleled repertoireT.V. Sankaranarayanan is today the senior-most amongst the class artistes. With endless concerts behind him, his experience is phenomenal and his repertoire, doubtless unparalleled. The style, as every one knows, is not new but yet pervasive. It may be summarised as replacing the calm simplicity of classical forms with exuberance of feeling and ornament, aimed at the classical and achieving the baroque. He is a shrewd singer. Endowed with the unique skill of discrimination than discretion, he can, at the right moment, keep aside the classical and cater to the common listener material laced with intellectual asceticism, yet maintaining a logical sequence.  This, in fact, is the secret of his success.  This is an age where musical tendencies exert considerable influence &#151;  good or bad &#151;  over the current attitude towards classical masterpieces.In terms of selection of the items, it was a mixed fair, the classical with the popular, the spiritual with the theatrical and the common with the rare, a format, which can cater to the common as well as the connoisseur. Most of the items were uncommon amongst whichKalyaniwas high-flying.ThekrithiNambikettavrillavoof Purandra Dasa was artistically depicted. Theneravalandswarakalpanaadded needed glamour. Yet another item, which was well received, was thealapanaofBhairaviand the accompanying songThanyuni brova.Ranjaniwas chosen for RTP set toadi talam. It was a simplepallaviwell executed. Mullaivasal Chandarsekhar on the violin, Prasad on the mridangam, Somayajulu on the ghatam formed an excellent team and thethaniwas exhilarating.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/09/stories/2005120901860300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/09/images/2005120901860302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.V. Sankaranarayana
p14
ss.