(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic that marks a puritan
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Society was justified in projecting her art.Devoid of mannerisms and theatricals, her music is highly spiritual and therefore melody takes a secondary role, underprivileged by blatant technique.What strikes most, and rightly so, is the incorruptible alignment with thesruti; this feature particularly atthara shadjammakes a spectacular impact.The selection of the items was rather unusual in the sense it included numbers of Tamil songs and Thyagaraja was represented only by a minor piece, a feature which was unfamiliar to the Telugu audience. Nonetheless, the copiousness of repertoire and fertility of rendition was impressive. Themanodharmafeatures likeneravalandswarakalpanatoo were notable. Her involvement in bhakthi was obviously the reason to overlook some of these essential features like overall imbalance in the concert.The concert started withnatakuranji varnamwhich was neatly presented.The selection of the next ragarithigowlawas idyllic but the choice of the Tamil song was a little disappointing to the Telugu audience.Kanjathalayathakshiinkamalamanohariis a song not recently heard and the audience enjoyed it.The following ragapoorvikalyaniwas elaborate and produced the nuances of the raga in all its colours; it was again a Tamil song that followed it.Punnagavaraliis a difficult raga to elaborate and Lakshmi stuck safely to thekrithis kanakasailaviharini, but the confusion is changing over tomadhyamasruthiwas a little disturbing.Annapurneinsamawas impressive.It was in theraga alapnaofthodithat Lakshmi made a mark swelling into praise, luxury and affluence of expression.Her staying power atthara shadjais exemplary. In keeping with the sophisticatedalapanaof the raga,ninne namminanuof Shyama Sastry inmisra chapuwas the right choice. Correctkalapramanamand right emotion marked the version. She, however, missed some of the contemporarysangathisin thekrithi, which could be identified only by a connoisseur.B.S. Narayanan, the disciple of T.N. Krishnan, who was on the violin, contributed sizeable measure of aesthetics and added needed colour to the concert.Borra Sriram is a reasonably good mridangam player, but he has had barely chances for accompanying big artistes. Balasubramanyam on the ghatam has still a long way to go.In essence, the concert was a treat to spiritual-minded audience.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/30/stories/2008053050170300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.