(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYouth to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VTwo music organisations &#8212; S.S. Music Academy and Pallavi Academy of Fine Arts joined hands to organise Thyagaraja and Annamayya Jayantis at Thyagaraya Ganasabha, last week for two consecutive evenings. It was heartening to watch over a hundred children and youth attending the event.Tandanana Hure, Jagadapu Chanuvula Jajara, Konda Velanethinatti Govinda, Vadala Vadalaventa Vasanthamu, Vettivalapu Challaku Vishnumuriti and Choodavamma Yasodamma are some of difficult kirtanas of Annamayya which the groups rendered Respective gurus of these institutions imparting Carnatic music were also there on stage guiding the children. They included some known names like G.V. Prabhakar, Sasikala Swamy, V.G. Saraswathi and Vasumathi Madhavan. The orchestral support was provided by Guruprasad on keyboard, Ramanamurthy on tabla, Sivaram on rhythms. Well known for the rendition of Annamacharya kirtanas, Sobha Raju was all praise for these children.As part of Thyagaraja Jayanthi festival held on the following day, besides young children's participation in Thyagaraja kriti rendition, noted vocalists, G.V. Prabhakar, S.K.Venkatachari, Vasa Gopinath and Sasikala Swamy also took part in the rendition of Thyagarja compositions adapting the concert style. Senior vocalists rendered four compositions each. The highlights were Venkatachari's Tulasidalamulache in Mayamalavagowla presented with ragaalapana, nereval and swarakalpana, with traditional touch that was well received. Vasa Gopinath, a lecturer in Government College of music and dance rendered Sambho Mahadeva in Panthuvarali.The delineation of the raga set mood of the melody and the swarakalpana he presented was heartening, reflecting the south Indian tradition. G.V. Prabhakar took up Nadatanumanisam Sankaram in Chittaranjani adding a brief nereval and swarakalpana in it.The raga was flavoured with impressive phrases. This day also being Sankara Jayanthi, this kirtana suited the occasion. Children groups rendered Utsava Sampradaya kirtanas and Divyanama Sankirtanas of Thyagaraja. Rajasekhar and Chander Rao on violins and P.R.C. Sarma and M. Chandrakanth on mridangams shared the concerts, with professional excellence. A children's group later presented the Panchartana kirtana ganam, a sight to watch. This was the first time that such groups of children were exposed to music and participating on the stage, an experience for them too.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/13/stories/2011051350120300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/13/images/2011051350120302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VG.V. Prabhakar.
p14
ss.