(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIndependent, authoritative
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe concert of R. Sundar, a professional in the United States and a disciple of Seshagoplan, arranged by Kalasagaram needs applause. He has imbibed the style of his guru and has added something of his own to make it a little independent and even authoritative. His music is young; his rich voice has its pliability, depth and compass to accommodate lofty ideas and manipulate them to the best of musical interest. However, needless body language, a little excess of speed and a tendency towards undesirable and unhealthypadachedam(breaking of the lyrical content at wrong places) wedges in quite often, and to that extent, the concert loses its polish.In terms ofalapana, the planning is reasonably good. As forswarakalpana, it is just general and not devoid of richly rehearsedkoruvais, extending beyond rational limits. For instance in the exercise for the krithi,Meenakshi me mudaminPoorvikalyani, thethirmanamextended to eightavarthas. For what purpose, it is hard to say. It is the order of the day to offer vociferous applause for such meaningless accomplishments. The man in the street, fails to understand even a syllable of it. Exaggeration of technique becomes spiritually impotent; the epic becomes dramatic; it loses the unity of continuity and becomes more and more narrative.The selection was judicious and the sequence evocative. After thevarnamin Sahana, thekrithi,hiranmayiof Dikshithar in Lalitha moved the audience, although thekalapramanmwas a wee bit faster than designed. Thealapanaof Rithigowla and the following songjanaj ninnuvianwas captivating.Kripa juchutaku velarain Chayathrangini was a prelude to Poorvikalyani (meenaksime mudam)which was elaborate and exhaustive, but it was to a great extent marred by overplaying ofswarakalpana. The concert was decorated with RTP in Saveri set tokhandajathi thriputa thalam. It was an attractive exposition backed by imagination, scholarship and vision, but again there was overplaying ofsawarakalpana. What Sundar missed in terms of maturity was amply filled up by Peri Sriramamurthy on the violin. His composed playing bringing out the melody in superabundance was the hallmark of the concert. Mannargudi Eswaran on the mridangam is a seasoned vidwan with profound experience. His playing on the occasion with the expert support of ghatam by Somayajulu, made the percussion playing an attractive feature of the day.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122200350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122200350301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VR. Sundar
p14
ss.