(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VShe pursues the poetic
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANAttention, rasikas! Calling all anxious souls who bemoan the near-extinct state of bhava-oriented music in the current performing scenario. Your worry is officially a thing of the past as hope looms large on the horizon in the form of young Amrutha Venkatesh's music. Music that spells class and has quality as its watchword.Weighty classicism? This is one artiste who breakfasts on Bhairavi and dines on Saveri, with maybe a little light snacking thrown in with Natakurinji or Sahana. And that's just for starters. You could get equally lucky with a crisp Panthuvarali or a Kalyani marinated in melody. Dessert would include sumptuous helpings of honey-laced Hamsanandi or Behaag.Study in subtletyOn this occasion, thea la cartefeatured Begada and Dhanyasi in the main course. Begada was a study in subtlety. Authentic thrust powered every phrase. Sruti-aligned karvais, the consummate handling of the madhyama in changing hues and the satin-smooth glide of the nishada were rich treats generously handed out in alapana, kriti (Patnam Subramania Iyer's `Abhimaana') and swaraprasthara.`Kaana Vendaamo' was redolent with the fragrance of Sriranjani, the eloquent Papanasam Sivan composition rendered with a keen understanding of melody and lyric.When was the last time you heard a teen-aged vocalist elaborate Dhanyasi as the main raga with the poise and maturity of an experienced artiste twice her age? The most remarkable aspect of the treatise was the actualisation of kriti, niraval and kalpanaswara as a seamless extension of raga alapana.This is an indisputable sign of enduring musicianship. Eschewing the prosaic and pursuing the poetic, the artiste wove an irresistible spell that sprinkled enchantment with every touch. The gamaka-rich madhyama kala prayogas cresting at the tara stayi shadja explored karvais and languid intertwined sancharas with total concentration. The easy reach in lower and upper octaves was harnessed to impart a drizzle of delicate touches. Again, defining moments surfaced in the niraval-swara garlands at `Saamaja' in Syama Sastri's `Meena lochana,' the kalpanaswaras swivelling, mixing and matching glowing colours in a palette initially circumscribed to reflect discipline and gradually growing to encompassing dimensions a shining example of precision and classic understatement.Kalyani, Neelambari, Behaag and Arabhi were the blossoms twined into the ragamalika viruttam culminating in the Purandara dasa composition in Arabhi.The vocalist's approach seeped into the violinist's delineations, as S. Karthick responded with sensitive raga sketches.The firm sure strokes of the mridangam artiste, Arjun Ganesh, provided consistent support and the tani avartanam carried the right touch needed to enliven proceedings.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202060700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/12/images/2007011202060702.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAmrutha Venkatesh.
p14
ss.