(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUnrelenting tempo
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn G. Madhavan's concert, for the fifty-fifty club, the intensity and forcefulness of his manodharma formed an outlet in his alapana technique.All the pretty delights of tonal solidity, sometimes exaggerated, formed the basics of his exposition. So, his recital looked fabulous if not felicitous. This helped the unrelenting tempo-momentum going.With good control in negotiating sancharas in the tara stayi, his expressions were conditioned by what he felt would spell success on the concert.Quite young and over-anxious to make a mark, his attention was directed to the spectacular, particularly in the way he mounted a plethora of sancharas in the Varali alapana (&#8216;Maamava Meenakshi') which happened to be the main item in the programme. He stamped flair and focus in every phrase with exuberance to propel his objective.Perhaps experience may help him realise that music has to be tempered with visranti. Behind his externalised exposition was the soundness of training.There were clear indications of features of classicism by the way he rendered the Dikshitar kirtana with attractive niraval development.If in this segment the response of the violinist, Usha Rajagopal, was equally riveting attention, it was a good measure of how Madhavan transmitted his mind-set to her.The deep impression his music made was a result of the helpful harmony between intention and implementation. His particular style and musical content distinguished him from the general run of youngsters in the field today.Extensive elaborationThe other alapana was Hamirkalyani (&#8216;Maanamu Leda') a Tyagaraja song. His elaboration was extensive.It would have sparkled if it had been short in volume and sweet in effect. He kept the lyrical beauty of the song in tact keeping the specific shades of Hamirkalyani undefiled.Similarly, in the Karnaranjani piece &#8216;Om, Namo Narayanan,' the broad articulation provided an airing of devotional fervour, imparting majesty and power to the sahitya.The modulation of his voice transformed the kirtana into a glowing edifice of expression.There was perpetual mellowness in Usha Rajagopal's bowing in the raga lines.&#8216;Tulasi Dalamulache' (Mayamalagowla) and &#8216;Neelayadakshi' (Paras) were the other kritanas sung by Madhavan. One significant feature in his musical equipment was that he never resorted to contrivance of voice to feign reposefulness and sensitivity. It was all smooth ascent and descent.From out of his beats on the mridangam, played by Trichur Narendran, came laya nuances. He breathed life into the percussion art upbeat with insight into accompanying gracefulness.Good mridangam play, at his hands, was an ascent from the rankly ritualistic to the subtly suggestive.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/06/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/06/04/stories/2010060451300400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/06/04/images/2010060451300401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEnthusiastic: G. Madhavan.
p14
ss.