(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRemembering the guru
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe twin cities saw a grand musical tribute to flute maestro N.S. Srinivasan in a programme conducted by Swararnavam Foundation at Sundarayya Kalanilayam. Fondly called &#8216;Srinivasan Mama&#8217; in music circles, N.S. Srinivasan was a top-ranking flutist and disciple of the legendry Mali.He is highly talented and versatile,  besides being an able guru who has coached many young musicians in the field.N.S. Srinivasan was a selfless musician whocontributed to his fellow musicians by sharing his stupendous knowledge in the form of krithis or gnana. He received Best Producer Award from the then President of India Shankar Dayal Sharma for his work in AIR Hyderabad. He did several musical features which became popular even in countries like Norway. His special features includeInvisible Vision,Priceless LegacyandNation&#8217;s Wheel &#8211; A Documentary on Indian Railways. As a composer and conductor, he successfully conducted Vadya Vrinda in New Delhi in the year 1986.The pieceNadavaranginiwas widely acclaimed in music circles. As a performer, Srinivasan participated in many national music event. His contribution to the Andhra Music Academy as its vice president is priceless and he has designed the covers of many CDs and cassettes of yesteryear Telugu musicians.Many noted musicians like D. Srinivas, whistle wizard Shiva Prasad, vocalist Aruna Padma and flutist Jayaprada were richly groomed by Srinivasan.To mark his memory, the disciples of N.S. Srinivasan featured the famous Hyderabad Sisters, Lalitha and Haripriya, in a vocal duet concert.On the same occasion, a Young Talented Award was instituted in his name and was conferred upon Tejaswy Mallela, a young artiste from Hyderabad. Tejaswi presented a soothing violin solo, presentingRama Nee Samanamevereof Thyagaraja in Rupakam and concluded with a western composition of Madura Mani Iyer.The highlight of the day was the Hyderabad Sisters, theirrich concert exposure rendering a high quality vocal duet, supported by Dwaram Satyanarayana on the violin, Vankayala Venkata Ramana on the mridangam, Nemani on the ghatam, and Srinivasan on the morsing.The sisters began their recital withEvarunnaruin Narayanee, which was steadily sung with brilliant swaram.Charukesi was neatly and elegantly essayed forKrupaya Palaya Shourein misra chapu with brisk swaram.A rare Uthukkadu compositionKaruna Laya Ramain Vilambam adi was executed very well with Hindustani flashes.On the whole the Hyderabad Sisters maintained their top-class stature by giving a quality concert which made the memorial day of N.S. Srinivasan a memorable one.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/07/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/07/10/stories/2009071050380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/07/10/images/2009071050380301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.