(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGood control over laya
p3
sVnews
p4
VANUJAN AND Ashwin from Mumbai,  gave an elaborate  vocal recital under the auspices of Rama Gana Sabha on the occasion of its first anniversary celebrations at Ramar temple in Ramnagar, Coimbatore.They exhibited their talent at their maiden concert, featuring  popular kritis, with well-aligned sruti and good control over laya. The Todi varnam, "Era Naapai,"  that exuded  the fragrance of the raga, gave a good start."Sri  Mahaganapathe"  was brisk while "Nagumomu" (Abheri) that followed  stressed on the emotive contents of the kriti. Anujan's raga vinyasam of Madhyamavati for "Dharmasamvardhini" had several traditional sancharas and his saariram in the higher octaves lent a touch of shimmering gloss and the kriti was rendered with bhava.Ashwin's aesthetically fluent alapana of Poorvikalyani was an illustration of his understanding of the place of gana naya in music for the song, "Meenkshimemudham."The  neraval, followed by a swara deluge, was aesthetically gratifying. The duo  deserves encouragement by the local music sabhas.The violin accompaniment of Guruvayurappan was competent and supportive. The  laya display by Palldam Ravi on the mridangam gave an added impetus to the proceedings.Exquisite manodharmaAt a vocal recital organised by  Thyagabrahma Gananjali, Vijay Siva was in absolute command of kritis and the delineation of carefully chosen ragas.Indeed, it was a demonstration of his earnestness to sing in a dignified style of communication of Carnatic music.Exquisite manodharma in the alapanas, karvais, madhyamakala phrases and a general feeling of vishranti were present in an integrated form in the cutcheri.The felicity of his voice and focus on sruti in "Vinave O Manasa"  had an instant impact on the rasikas. The piece, "Cheraravathe" in Ritigowlai was complete with impressive passages of neraval and swaras."Maanamuledha" was preceded by a scintillating raga sketch of Hamirkalyani."Sanathana Paramapavana" (Palamanjari) and "Grahabalamemi" (Revagupthi) came in for appreciation for proper enunciation of lyrics.The alapanas of Todi for "Kotinathulu Dhanushkoti," Bilahari for "Tholijanma" and Karaharapriya for "Chakkaniraja" were characterised by highly energised phrasings and robust presentation.His rendition of  Kharaharapriya had a classic touch  and "Chakkaniraja" drew wide accolades.The nuanced rendition of "Seethamma" (Vasantha) and "Eemaneeve" (Useni) were marked by chaste taste and disciplined patantara.Sriramkumar's fine tuning on the violin with charming idioms and phrases reflective of the vocalist's bhava gave glint to the entire melodic exercise.He tapped the essences of Todi and Kharaharapriya with ability. Manoj Siva (mridangam) and Mohanram (ghatam) gave active  percussive support.T. K. GANAPATHYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/04/stories/2005020400410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/02/04/images/2005020400410301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VN. Vijay Siva
p14
ss.