(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VScoring the mores of history
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe most thrilling  recording revealed Vilayat Khan as a vocalist, where he was captured teaching a thumri to Begum Akhtar.Ustad Vilayat Khan pioneered a unique style. The  opening stroke played on  a sitar is enough to  decipher it.  The &#8216;gayaki ang&#8217; which is a prominent feature of his style, doesn&#8217;t reproduce vocals but the vocalised form.  The &#8216;gayaki ang&#8217; in his alap, for instance, is like storytelling that is enriched with an emotional element. There are six basic tenets of his style, like how he used thechikaari, or what were the physical changes he re-engineered in the sitar to suit his style, for example by increasing the thickness of thetabaliandtaar-gahanand removing the  mandra Pancham string and  replacing it with Gandhar that created a chord-like effect. These are some of the facts about  the ustad  and his music that were made  clear by Arvind, a leading sitarist and the senior-most disciple of the late ustad.To make his points clear, Arvind  played excerpts from his recordings. There was  raga Pilu that  exemplified Khan saheb&#8217;s mastery in  conveying poignant human emotions, Bihagada  that showed how the alap went along with the theka, Yaman  which explained the architectural progress of the raga stage by stage, and Darbari  that illustrated the gayaki ang in the jod section. Raga Purva   was played to illustrate his command over the  sur bahar,  and  Bhathiali showcased  the folk elements his versatile music was endowed with.The most thrilling  recording revealed Vilayat Khan as a vocalist, where he was captured teaching a thumri to Begum Akhtar. He  sang the difficult phrase and made  his gifted disciple repeat it till she got it right, which was followed by her tinkling giggle.    Arvind has won critical acclaim in India and abroad as a profound performer, a knowledgeable musicologist and a dedicated teacher but this was definitely a memorable evening with him.Ustad Mushtaq Ali Khan Centre for Culture (UMAK) organised a sitar and guitar duet by  Panchali Nandi and Neelranjan Mukherjee at the India Habitat Centre. Both the youngsters  are disciples of Pandit Debu Chaudhury. They played a detailed  alap-jod-jhala and two compositions in raga Yaman. The way the two complemented  each other while elaborating the raga was remarkable. If one  made a statement in the middle octave, the other would juxtapose it in the lower or upper octave,  creating a lovely symmetry. Their melodic approach matched their rhythmic   prowess, which spoke highly of their training and practice.This was followed by a vocal recital by Ustad Iqbal Ahmad Khan, the khalifa of  the Dilli gharana which boast an   affiliation to  the renowned composer Hazrat Amir  Khusrau and an unbroken lineage thereafter.A gifted disciple of the legendary Ustad Chand Khan, Iqbal Ahmad has  a rich repertoire of unique compositions. This evening he treated the audience  to some  rare compositions of  Khusrau, not only in Khayal but also   a bouquet of forms such as chaturang, trivat, tarana, naksh-o-gul and qaul qualbana.He also sang a  composition whose four segments were set to four different talas.He was ably accompanied on the harmonium by Mehmood Dhaulpuri and  Akhtar Hasan on the tabla.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/01/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/01/11/stories/2008011150080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.