(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLife of Ramanuja
p3
sVnews
p4
VSea Records SDV 9003English DocumentarySrimad BhagavatRamanujacharyaPrice: Rs. 175 (CD)Ramanuja was an important member of the school of Sri Vaishnavism so called because Sridevi, the Goddess Lakshmi, is said to be its propounder. Total surrender to the Almighty was the key feature of Sri Vaishnavism and its philosophy was described as Visistadvaita.Ramanuja was born to Asuri Kesavachariar and Kantimathi in Sriperumbudur, a small village not far from Chennai, in the year 1017 A.D. He received higher-level education from the Advaitin teacher, Yadhava Prakasa. He was married to Thanjambal at probably the age of 16.Yamunacharya, a great preceptor in Srirangam decided that Ramanuja should become his successor, but as fate would have it Yamuna died before this could happen.When Ramanuja was taken to pay his last respects to the guru, he found that three of Yamuna's fingers in the right hand were folded into the palm. Ramanuja understood that this was a message to him and pronounced three vows.  As soon as these three vows were taken by Ramanuja, Yamuna's hand became wide open.Many such colourful incidents in Ramanuja's life like the meeting with the hunter couple who were none other than the Lord and His celestial consort, the Brahmarakshasa episode, the Guru Yadhavaprakasa becoming the student of his own disciple Ramanuja, the initiation by Goshti Purna into the most sacred Ashtakshari mantra, `Om Namo Narayanaya,' the Melakote temple near Mysore that Ramanuja built and where he stayed for 22 years etc. are all well covered in this album.This release of Sea Records is a valuable asset not only to followers of Hinduism, but even to many who are interested in widening their horizons about various religions other than their own.The delightful visuals, the excellent narration by P. C. Ramakrishna, the soothing musical backdrop and the appropriate script do add to the quality of this effort.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/13/stories/2005051302150300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.