(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYoung vocalists to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was the sixth anniversary celebrations of Sangeetha Ksheerasagaram, a noted music sabha promoting young talent. The celebrations were held for five days at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha.The festival opened with a  recital by young vocalist Chidrupalakshmi.She choseSankarabharanamas her main piece and presented theragawell for the Thyagaraja compositionEnduku Peddalavalealong with a laudableswarakalpana. Saveri was another melody she detailed for the compositionSankari Sankuruof Shyama Sastry in Tisragati Adi talam. She  also rendered an Anandabhairavi pieceMari Vere. P. Pawan Singh on violin and G. Omprakash on mridangam lent support. But theshruthibox she used was set loud, drowning her voice at times.Mellifluous singer Sattiraju Venumadhav figured on the second day in the company of N.C.Ananta Krishna on violin and T.P.Balasubrahmanyam on mridangam.The speciality of his repertoire was the presentation of Vattipalli Krishnamurthy&#8217;skirtanasthat were set to music by renowned guru Ankayya after whomthis music sabha is named.Nee Palukurain rare Visarada ragaandArunachalain Saranga added freshness to the concert.He is said to have renderedthese compositions withswaranotations given by Anandamohan, Ankayya&#8217;s disciple and organiser of this sabha. Venumadhav isknown for hisrendition of Annamacharyakirtanas.He presented two of them -Nithyapoojalivigoin Kaharaharapriya andMangambudhi Hanumanthain Valaji. Then, he went for a composition of Oothukadu Venkatasubbaiyer,Alai Payude.The raga was well expounded and theswarastoo were imaginative. This concert was one of the highlights of the festival.N. Ch. Buchayacharyulu son of the late renowned scholar Krishnamacharylu figured on the third day along with his son Kousik Kalyan providing vocal support. Ramaraju Dinakar on violin and Aravind on mridangam gave apt support. This was also an outstanding concert.Naturally this father-son duo chose Krishnamacharylu&#8217;skirtanasin Kedaram (Gajavadanamasraye), Husseini (Dehi Sannidehi), Keeravani (Paramardhamide), Kalyani (Sri Kanakadurge) and Sriranjani (Marubalka) and presented them well withragasketches andneravuandswarakalpana.Veena virtuoso Emani Lalithakirshna figured on the fourth day of the festival in the company of Burra Sriram on mridangam and Janardhan on ghatam.She started with a Navaragamalikavarnamand followed it with a rare invocationGanapathein Kalyani.She then played popular number of ThyagarajaMaravairiin Nasikabhuishani.The highlight of the concert was the presentation ofRagam-Tanam-Pallaviin two ragas, Lalitha and Haimavati, and playing them alternately in all the three phases.The last day was allotted for a Hindustani concert. And the young singerwas Sriramachandramurthy, son of noted Hindustani vocalist Ch. Bhimasankaram. Ananthanayakalkar on harmonium and Ch.Raghunath on Tabla lent support. He chose a difficultraganamed &#8216;Rag Shad&#8217;, a set of six ragas, Suha, Kaanada, Saaranga, Desh, Kandhari and Sushurai. This was a difficult raga to render and he said he took six months to learn from his father. All these ragas alternately fall in line in the raga delineation.The accompanists too lent meaningful support to the vocalists.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/12/stories/2008091250360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/12/images/2008091250360301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMellifluous performanceSinger Venumadhav.
p14
ss.