(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA musical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Krishnagana Sabha, Mysore, has stepped into its fourth year. In these years, it surely has made a difference to connoisseurs, even while initiating others into the world of the classical performing arts like music and dance. The fourth annual celebrations held at the Alwar Kala Bhavana, Gokulam, Mysore, featured renowned artistes such as the Rudrapatnam Brothers (Vidwan R. Tyagarajan and R. Taranath), vidhushi R.A. Ramamani and Hyderbad Sisters (Lalitha and Haripriya), during the three-day music festival.Lalitha and Haripriya were at their best in the delineation of raga Thodi (Dikshitar's "Sri Krishnam Bhaja Manasa").Distinct commitment to bhava and diction with impressive tri-stayi svara-kalpana were the hallmarks of this rare composition.However, the earlier renditions commencing from varnam "Jalajakhsa" (in trikala pramana) and successive compositions were insignificant and failed to create an impact. C.N. Chandrasekar on violin, B. Ravishankar on the mridanga, and Ramesh on morsing, gave excellent support for the success of the concert which otherwise was a lackadaisical evening.Mysore became synonymous with Sri Ramanavami music concerts in the early years of the 20th Century when Mysore Vasudevacharya and Piteelu Chowdaiah started the music concert series at Prasanna Seetharama Mandira (popularly known as the Bidaram Rama Mandira), Mysore, in the year 1920. Doyens of classical music were invited to perform during the Sri Ramanavami celebrations since then. Later, the late B. K. Padmanabha Rao and H.T. Narasimha Murthy gave a concrete shape to this festival by raising sufficient funds for the festival series.In the so many years that this festival has been successfully going on uninterrupted, eminent artistes as well as young artistes have been given a forum to perform. Artistes consider it a blessing to sing before the idol of Lord Sri Rama at this venue.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/07/stories/2006040703020300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.