(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor a distinct identity
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAThe seminar sought to establish Odissi music as an independent system like the Hindustani and Carnatic genres.The Odissi Research Centre (ORC), Bhubaneswar,  organised a symposium on Odissi music during their Odissi Sandhya, a two-day event held recently at New Delhi&#8217;s Triveni auditorium recently.Way back in the 1980s, the ORC had organised a festival in the Capital to establish Odissi music as an independent music system like the Hindustani and Carnatic  genres. The symposium this time also voiced the same sentiments, but through practical d\u000aemonstrations rather than arguing it in so many words.In a well researched presentation  Ramhari Das, Director, ORC, showcased Odissi music with its distinctive features.  Discussing the logical development of theory and practice of Odissi music, Das elaborated on different forms like dhruvapadanga, champu, chhand, chautisa, pallavi, and ashtapadi, et al.He explained that on account of bhava or mood, the Odissi prabandha is divided into three main categories (angas): raaganga, bhaavanga and naatyanga. Raaganga follows all applications and principles of the raga, whereas in bhaavanga, the raga becomes secondary to bhava and in naatyanga, the tala or chhand takes prominence over raga and bhava.Whether vocal or instrumental, Odissi music has three main characteristics, he said. First is theandolita gati, the vibrating pace. The second is its medium tempo which is neither very slow nor very fast, &#8220;Na drut na vilambit\u000a&#8221;. The third is equal emphasis on raga and tala in accordance with the bhava or mood of the lyric.Das  demonstrated each point with his melodious singing.  The raaganga was rendered in raga Kedar-Kamodi with a detailed delineation of the raga. He presented threebandishes(compositions) to explain the bhaavanga depicting differ\u000aent emotions. The naatyanga could be easily deciphered with the gait of Khemata tala, in a lovely composition with a folk flavour.He apprised the audience with varieties like the champu and chokhi also. Champu, he said, was a combination of prose and poetry. He chose to sing Ka champu, &#8216;Ki haala re&#8230;&#8217;, out of the 34 champus starting with different letters of the alphabet. .Pandit Raghunath Panigrahi performed in the opening session of the symposium. Among the other artistes who sang or played during Odissi Sandhya,  Bijoy Jena sang a composition of Vanmali Das in raga Varadi, which sounded almost like the Puria Dhanashri of Hindustani music. Sangita Panda gave an elaborate treatment to raga Mangal Kamodi with compositions parallel to thebaraandchhota khayalof Hindustani music, followed by adadra-lik\u000ae piece in Pilu set to Khemata tala, sung in typical thumri style.Keshab Chandra Raut sang raga Kamodi. He  adorned the composition &#8220;Meena nayana&#8230;&#8221; with speed variations like dugun, tigun, chaugun, and a variety of sargam (note patterns) andaakartaans.  Lata Ghosh and Sangita G\u000aosain were the other vocalists who performed, but Sachidananda Das and Dhyaneshwar Sen received the loudest applause for their duet on the mardala.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/05/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/05/11/stories/2007051150080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.