(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn an adventurous excursion
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKAn outstanding feature of Madurai Seshagopalan's bhani is conveying the depth of Carnatic music through passionate articulation in new modes  not heard in recent times.Oftentimes it is not a planned conscious process of creativity, but an adventurous excursion to startle through vocal mobility and sharp angles to alapanas or interpretation of kirtanas.The mix of talent, versatility and musical virtuosity all are aimed at one objective  -   to provide an imperial aura to his kutcheries. This means aesthetic restraint is sacrificed in the process.The demonstrative basis of his sangita  -   giving free rein to his vocal supremacy  -   was in full flow in his performance for Fifty-Fifty Club, conducting its 500th concert.The  focus was on the alapana of Kharaharapriya, followed by the kirtana, "Chakkani Raja Margamu."  Seshagopalan's energetic voice defined the raga's contours.Wild embellishmentIn rhetoric-fuelled assertiveness Kharaharapriya's image, as Seshagopalan presented, was one of wild embellishments and vocal thrusts. His provocative technique was to be seen in the rendering of the great song.Sahityas were expanded and contracted within the tala time measure, dismantling in the process the traditional structure to impart uniqueness as his brand of kirtana interpretation. His vidwat was well preserved, but the nobility of the sahityas became indistinct. Earlier, Saveri ("Tulasi Jagat Janani") and Hamirkalyani ("Maanamu Leda") with raga alapanas had the driving force of intellectual erudition.In his documentation of the ragas in the solo sessions, violinist V.V. Ravi was sensible enough to cast aside the temptation to toe the line of Seshagopalan. In contrast to the vocalist, it was a spartan approach.Tenderness of percussive play formed the texture of Vellore Ramabhadran's mridangam accompaniment. The patterns were intensely slicing but all the same gentle.Speaking on the occasion, Mr. N. Murali, Managing Director ofThe Hindu, complimented the Fifty-Fifty Club for its decades of chamber-music service to its members.In the plethora of sabhas, its role to preserve the chamber-music quality was significant, he said.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/01/stories/2006090103500400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/01/images/2006090103500401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VWITH AN IMPERIAL AURA: Madurai T. N. Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.