(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFrom brilliant to the pedestrian
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe concert was a clear vindication of the values of relaxed singingLined up at the Kalasgaram fest were  the duet singers, Ranjani and Gayathri. The sisters are basically violinists, who have, in recent years taken to vocal music. They perhaps stand to gain by that measure in the sense that they have vast experience of having played for stalwart vocalists and, thus know their foibles and fineness. They have honed their approach accordingly and cut out a niche that pleases everyone.They know the secret as to how they can give tenor, full and unusual, to every note in the quickest bravura phrase. But the alcove they have figured out is just out of the ordinary. Unwittingly or wittingly, they do add some gestures and glamour to enhance mass appeal and maintain the cadence, the poignant feature being excessive speed that was blatant in thedrithakala sanchara(faster tempo), particularly in the delineation of theraga sihmendramadhyamam.However the artist should never lose himself in its involutions; it is all worth listening but not worth appreciating. If one should take no notice of this shortcoming, the concert was reasonably good. Amongst the items rendered,mohana(nannupalimpa),sriranjani(marubalka) were good in every feature. The RTP was insimhendramadhyamaset tokhandajathithriputa thalamwith a trickynadai- thelaghupart of it inthisramanddritaminchathusra nadai. Guru Prasad on the violin, Arun Prakash on the mridangam and Murali on the ghatam enhanced the dignity of the concert.Earlier the concert was flawed by failure of the sound system, which is not uncommon these days. Any amount of manipulations (evidently due to both poor and inefficient technician and equipment) did not set things right, one or the other microphone failing to function. At a point of time, the artist, Gayathri was so much upset that she rightly announced she would not sing. With the moods so upset, it took considerable time to gain back composure.Ardour and sensuousness of the performance, the grace, the instinctive ease, the blend of spirituality formed the core of the concert of Malladi Brothers (Sri Ram Prasad and Ravikumar).All this was in the past! In recent times Malladi Brothers have drastically changed their style of singing- at least as judged by their performance on the occasion.  Take for instance thekrithi, ramanatham bhajehuminpantuvarali. Be it the song,alapana, neravalor evenswarakalpana, it was nerve-racking. Almost every song,koluvamarakatha(todi),naradagana lola(atana),mapala velasi(asaveri), all had the same upshot. To be more exact, thekrithiinpanthuvaraligained double the speed at the end in contrast to its start. Mahadeva Sarma, who evidently is a good violinist, got entranced in the jamboree; eventually it proved to me disarray.It was Narayanan, who, to some extent saved the ignominy. Relaxed; singing involuntarily projects spirituality, while speed does just the opposite and ends up with arid, academic conservative standard.Following the exuberance of Malladi Brothers, the vocal concert of T.M. Krishna was in total serenity. Krishna may not have the Herculean vigor as to call his style animated but it is positively penetrating for, he does not wish to be over-energetic.What he attempts he performs; he is never rapid, and he never stagnates; his musical expressions of spiritual experience and rhythmical complexities are unique to himself and are kept within natural limits; they play their full and vital functions side by side with the elements of melody and harmony.The style is familiar but not coarse, elegant but not ostentatious. . If one has to understand him, one must give one's days and nights to listen to the volumes of his music.The concert was a clear vindication of the values of relaxed singing. The items,gajavadainthodiandela avathramuinmukhariwere incredible examples.The performance had its share of mass appeal too in deliberately extendingswarakalpanaoralapanabeyond reasonable limits.Srirama Kumar was on the violin and he is so much used to Krishnan's singing that the combination produces the desired effect without effort. Arun Prakash on the mridangam was imprisoned in the shacked rhythmical raptures. It was a great concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/15/stories/2006121501030300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.