(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGait a little hurried
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANShe is blessed with a clear voice, perfect diction and fortunate to be trained by violin maestro Lalgudi Jayaraman. And she is a vocalist who tries variety with confidence. Nevertheless, recognition on a large scale seems to somehow elude Sankari Krishnan.  Those who have heard Sankari on a few occasions must be aware that Urmika, a close derivative of Simhendramadyamam, is one of her favourites. She handled this rare melody with consummate ease for the lone composition "Entani Vina Vinthura" with winsome package of kalpanaswaras. The very trite but significant prelude of Darbar and the Tyagaraja composition "Mundu Venuga" with swara link provided enough impetus at the beginning of the concert.Less of lustreTodi was the anchor for the evening. The raga was well-conceived, detailed and wrapped up with a tidy conclusion. There were no technical flaws or lack of ingenuity in the presentation. The matter of concern was the insidious undercurrent of haste in the middle and concluding segments.  Ragas like Todi will shine even with such shortcomings; in fact it was polished. But only the lustre was less than expected.The same happened with the graceful kriti of Tyagaraja "Koluvamaragatha Kothandapani." The surfeit of bright and poignant sangatis rolled off properly but with less intensity. The compensation came in the neraval and swaras at "Sri Karuniki Sruta Chintamani." Sankari's treatment carried the stamp of maturity with several rounds of long stretches of kuraippu swaras centred on shadjam. But it will be better if  the swaras are more taut. Dr. Hemalatha infused enough substance in her version on the raga alapanas of Darbar, Urmika and Todi. She was more prudent in her swara passages. Ganapathyram provided percussion support, neat without being overzealous.Sankari treated the audience with special numbers like "Durga devi" in Navarasakannada by Muthiah Bhagavathar, "Padumanaban Maruga" in Nagaswarali by Papanasam Sivan and "Thillai Ambalathan" in Suruti by Gopalakrishna Bharati.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042802750400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042802750401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPERFECT DICTION: Sankari Krishnan.
p14
ss.