(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFine blend of technique and knowledge
p3
sVnews
p4
VAccomplishment of a fine blend of technique, dexterity and profundity of knowledge with sagacity and soulful involvement marked the violin solo of Visakhapatnam AIR staffer M. Srinivasa Narasimha Murthy at Kalabharathi last Saturday.His wife Pantula Rama tunefully on violin, V. Ramana Murthy going resonantly vibrant on mridangam lent remarkable support. The concert was organised by the Visakha Music Academy in commemoration of the 68th birth anniversary of its past president and former AU English Professor, late L.S.R.K. Sastry.Getting off to a tunefully brisk start with theNavaragamalika Varnam, Murthy sustained the tenor of the tempo playingVatapiganapathimbhaje (Hamsadhvani)concluded with craftyswaram, Balakanakamayachela (Athana)thrillingly,Manasa Etulorthune (Malayamarutham)meditatively along with the adornment of meaningfulswaramandTelisi Ramachintana (Purnachandrika)with appealing fervour before he brought out an entrancing treat ofMarivere (Shanmukhapriya)invigorated with enthrallingaalapana, neravuandswaram.He immediately followed it with an equally enchanting treat ofMohana Rama (Mohana)prefixed with an adeptaalapanaand suffixed with scintillatingswarakalpana.Starting with a tunefully dulcet and tranquil beat on mridangam, Ramana Murthy executed a sublimethanithat was replete with vibrant exercises ofgathiandyathi. He seemed to have gone ecstatically poetic transliterating the enticing attributes of the enduring beauty of Lord Rama as it gets revealed in the lyrical component into the finest of the fine vocabulary ofmridanga talamand its intrinsiclayabhavam. Venkatesh on morsing went exquisitely conformable. Rama as well especially in her turns on violin played with elan.Narayanatheertha TarangaminDarbarikanada, abhajanof Tulasidas and the popularDhanasri Thillanaconstituted the lilting tailpiece.A. RAMALINGA SASTRYBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/28/stories/2006072801250200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/28/images/2006072801250201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELLIFLUOUS PERFORMANCE Narasimha Murthi's (left) violin recital.
p14
ss.