(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGrand musical homage
p3
sVnews
p4
VVisakha Music Academy and Vijaya Thyagaraja Sangeetha Sabha teamed up for a three-day festival of music to mark Dwaram Narasingarao Naidu&#8217;s birth centenary in Kalavani Stadium. Inaugurated by Sivananda Murty, it started with a violin recital by Dr. L. Subramaniam along with his son Ambi (Chennai) on another violin, Vankayala V. Ramanamurty (local) on mridangam, E. M. Subrahmanyam (Chennai) on ghatam, Satish P. (Bangalore) on kanjeera and morsing by Ghantasala S. Sai last Saturday. Earlier in the evening, there was an audio visual show on late Narasingarao. It comprised edited clippings by Vijayakumar himself. Replete with discerning explication, it brought out some technical details of the violinist&#8217;s specialised style of exposition of Carnatic music on the instrument. Subrahmaniam started playing on violin alone as his son could not arrive in time from Chennai.Getting off to a scintillating start with the Navaragamalika varnam, he negotiated the pallavi in all the three tempos in Chaturasram andTrisramand concluded it with swaram in superfast tempo attracting reverberating applause from the excited audience. Then he absorbingly brought out a sketch of sublime nuances of Kharaharapriya and played his father&#8217;s (Lakshminarayana) composition and asked the percussionists to perform thani.  Subrahmaniam continued the recital along with his son with Niravadhisukhadha (Ravichandrika), followed by a composition in Gowrimanohari and concluded with Venkatachalanilayam of Annamayya (Sindhubhairavi).Young Ambi proved to be his father&#8217;s peer in all aspects of exposition of Carnatic music on violin. The next morning witnessed an interesting interactive session between the artiste (Subrahmaniam) and many music lovers.The whistle wizard K. Siva Prasad regaled the auditorium with his solo (Carnatic music) and a few samples of fusion music in the evening. He was ably accompanied on violins by S. L. Ganapathi and M.S. Sarma, mridangam by D.S.R. Murty, ghatam by S. Hanumantha Rao, tabla by Udaykumar, morsing by Ghantasala S. Sai and keyboard by Guruprasad. The highlights were briskly rendered Natakuranji varnam, Vaatapiganapatim, compositions in Chaarukesi and Suddhadhanyasi, elaboration of Paramaatmudu Velige (Vaagadheeswari) and Naadasudharasambilanu (Aarabhi) besides compositions in the genre of fusion music style in Sankarabharanam, a few light songs and a thillana. The thani executed in between by the percussionists was scintillating.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/19/stories/2008121950280200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/12/19/images/2008121950280201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VL. Subramaniam
p14
ss.