(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDoyen of Carnatic music
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was with great trepidation that you step into the house of the present day Pitamaha of Carnatic music in our State. Your pulse beats like it has no sense of time as you come face to face with the nonagenarian who is bed-ridden yet active enough to glean that there is a visitor trying to greet him.At 98, Dr. Sripada Pinakapani doesn't look one bit ill; just a little wrinkled and toothless with age, this music scholar-cum-medical physician is as bright as a star with clarity of thought and word. What more could you ask? His home is a fairly big one, on a lane in Kurnool.He beckons his son to make room for a chair to be pushed closer to his bed, takes a long look and apologetically says, &#8220;I may not be able to place things right in the first place. There would be so many gaps that might leave you dissatisfied. Age has caught up with me and my memory fails, so you've got to excuse me.&#8221;You don't have the heart to pressurise such a venerable person to speak at length. Still only one question strikes you. &#8220;Do you feel a sense of fulfilment at this stage after your untiring lifetime effort towards the cause of classical music?&#8221; Pat comes the answer, &#8220;Yes, I am very content. I couldn't have asked for more.&#8221; After this there is no looking back. He continues with crystal-like clarity only pausing for you to assimilate. For him, it was a reverie being recapulated.&#8220;I think it was God-ordained that I developed a love for music and I had a penchant to learn and internalize my passion. It increased by the day rather than diminish through the aging process. Mine was not a systematic learning process, though I did begin my early classes with Mysore B.S. Lakshman Rao Panthulu for five years in Rajahmundry. My guru was essentially a teacher so he was not the katcheri-oriented artist. Then I went to Dwaram Venkataswami Naidu. I had to learn a lot to get the Thanjavur baani which set the benchmark in Carnatic music. I would take pains to attend as many concerts as possible in Rajahmundry and Kakinada and diligently note down the ragas, observe the way of rendition, come home and ponder over these, trying to remember as much as I could. This was the first phase of my pursuance of music,&#8221; he pauses. A smile has already crept into his eyes as they narrow down looking into vacant space where perhaps he is able to visualise his initial days.Continuing his earlier narration, he added with the same clarity, &#8220;I secured a seat in Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam and I had to move out of my music world temporarily to concentrate on my medicine. I never gave up going to concerts in Vizag either and such a vast exposure was a tremendous learning process for me. I was able to understand the Dakshina style of singing and as the next step, I began to learn this style on my own and sing it in front of my fellow-students with a view to elicit their views on my mode of rendition. The feedback gave me impetus to try and teach young aspirants and in the process perform with confidence to connoisseurs. Gradually my love of music transformed into a goal especially after I was exposed to Madras Music Academy and musicians from Tamil Nadu. I was determined to bring the Dakshina baani into Andhra Pradesh and train students so that they are on par with any of the top musicians of Tamil Nadu. So, while my medical profession kept me preoccupied, I also took up teaching music for free to pupils and offer treatment to the poor also for free. I wanted my students, even if they were a handful, to win accolades at Madras.&#8221;And his pupils were none other than Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, Voleti, Srirangam Gopalaratnam, to name a few.That some of them were honoured with Sangeetha Kalanidhi by the Academy is a known fact as was their dedicated guru.&#8220;My illustrious pupils were able to bring the style I had ardently desired in the Andhra Pradesh music realm. I had the musical brain to put notation to kritis for which notation was not available. So, after my retirement as Superintendent of the hospital, I used all my the to pen five volumes called &#8216;Sangeeta Sourabham' which would be useful for the teachers as well as students of music. Even to this day, I breathe music. As a physician, I can vouchsafe that music is a breathing exercise where breath control is the keyword. I am a content man today as I have fulfilled my vision. Today, the Telugu musician is the best among bests and it makes me immensely happy,&#8221; he stretches his frail hand in a blessing gesture as you say goodbye with tears in your eyes.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/26/stories/2010112650330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/26/images/2010112650330201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusic Scholar Sripada Pinakapani.
p14
ss.