(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VJoy all the way
p3
sVnews
p4
VAnandam Anantam: Ajourney into TanamJeyaraaj and Jaysri;Swathi Soft Solutions2 CD-pack, MRP Rs. 250Tanam is a unique aspect of Carnatic music and has been the heirloom of many vainikas, as the instrument is best suited for exposition of this exercise and highlights the intricacies of tanam playing to the fullest. The usage of the tala (sympathetic) strings while playing tanam adds extra charm to the listening pleasure, provided the tala strings are properly tuned.Tanam was, for a long time, referred to as madhyma kalam. It is a fact that many vocalists have also established themselves as highly proficient tanam singers. The chittai tanam practised by vainikas from Thiruvananthapuram such as K.S. Narayanaswamy and M.A. Kalyanakrishna Bhagavathar is a delight to listen to.In the current concert scenario, especially in vocal concerts, tanam singing has been reduced to a mere formality.Talented duoAn exclusive twin compact disc album of tanams played on the veena has been brought out by Swathi Soft Solutions. The artists featured are the talented couple Jeyaraaj and Jaysri. Having been groomed by A. Ananthakrishna Iyer who hails from the direct sishya parampara of Muthuswamy Dikshitar, they have an enviable repertoire of Dikshitar kritis.Jeyaraaj and Jaysri have offered tanams in three melakarta ragas and 15 rakti ragas. The first disc commences with an elaborate tanam in Hindolam where the range of playing goes up to the thara sthayi daivatham. This is followed by a shorter tanam sketch in Kiravani which is crisp. The viraladi, spuritam and katri meetu come out with azhutham.The identity of raga Mandari gets clearly established in the opening phrase. While the tanam in Kedaram is good, the raga phrase NSRGRSN employed during one of the closing bits has more of a Sankarabaranam flavour. The musical maturity of the duo is revealed in the sensitive tanam portrayals of Huseini, Atana, Bahudari and Navroj. Chitrambari (66 {+t} {+h} melakarta) is the lone vivadhi raga in the first disc.Atana's hues are well projected in the opening phrase SNSRRS-NRSNSD. Great care has been taken by the vainikas in the generous tanam played in Navroj to emphasise the difference between Kurinji and Navroj. The couple has played precise tanams in Bhairavi, Yagapriya (31 {+s} {+t} melakarta), Balahamsa, Dhanyasi, Arabhi, Vegavahini, Mohanam, Nadanamakriya and Bagesri.Balahamsa is a raga which stands out mostly on the strength of the few kritis available in this melody. The veena players do justice in projecting its sensitive shades. Their handling of Vegavahini adheres to the arohana-avarohana krama as per the Dikshitar nomenclature and is not passed off as Chakravaham, which is very appreciable. The title given for this album is apt and Mala Mohan deserves due credit for choosing the same.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/01/stories/2010100150990300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/01/images/2010100150990301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.