(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWooing an audience
p3
sVnews
p4
VHARISH BALCarnatic vocalist and playback singer Unnikrishnan has many fans because of the melodic appeal in his music and also due to his popular film songs. Unnikrishnan's concert at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Kochi, drew a huge crowd.With gutsoAfter a brisk warm-up with a Pantuvarali varna, he sang `Sobillu Saptaswara' with  gusto. His numerous shortswarashad a perfect finish. A detailedalaapanaof Simhendra Madhyamam was proof of his  stamina andsadhaka.The Dikshitar kriti `Kamakshi Kamakoti Peetavasini' in Rupaka tala was presented neatly. As Unnikrishnan went for an expansive delineation of Kapi raga, his voice showed strain in the upper octave and he went for `ukara' in singing the phrases.Edapally Ajith's short sketch of the raga was contemplative and marked by tonal purity. It elicited appreciation from the audience and performers alike.The long swara passages for the kriti `Entha sowkhyamanine' displayed the mastery and experience of K.V. Prasad on the mridangam. He reproduced the spontaneousswarapatterns of the vocalist, as if he were reading the vocalist's mind.The vocalist glided to a racy kala and this made the thani from Prasad quite vigorous and he displayed rhythmic patterns of exquisite variety.A grip overlayaUnnikrishnan, a front ranking Chennai-based musician, includes  Swati Tirunal's compositions in most of his concerts, thus holding strong to his roots.`Paramapurusha Jagadeeswara' came as an invigorating interlude. A ragam tanam pallavi in Bilahari, set to Adi tala, gave evidence of the musician's grip overlaya. Variations to `Kundalavarali' proved to be a dazzling experience.Unnikrishnan shows a penchant forswarasinging in this raga, which is rarely attempted by other musicians. `Nanda nandana gopala', `Ra ra Chinnana' in Chenchurutti and `Brahma okate' in Bowli were also sung.`Sangeetaratnamanjari,' a book comprising navagraha and navavarana kritis of Dikshitar, notated by N.P. Ramaswamy, was released on the occasion.The concert was organised by Rasikapriya.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/13/stories/2006101300850300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.