(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich, aesthetic and melodious
p3
sVnews
p4
VRAMANISruti Arts Academy treated Madurai to a feast of music for six days recently. The concerts were well planned, with a judicious representation of senior and junior musicians.The series opened with a characteristically sober vocal recital by Neyveli R. Santhanagopalan who  capable of an unforced and rhythmically piquant musical idiom and imagination. He goes into the lyric with a relaxed thoroughness, paying attention to the meaning and the mood. Santhanagopalan started with a varnam in Sahana followed by "Swaminatha Paripalayasumam" in Nattai. One of the highlights of the evening was "Sri Parvati Parameswarou" of Syama Sastri in Bouli. His Sankarabharanam and "Sarojadalanetri" were interesting and enterprising. There was a teasingly prim and brief ragam-tanam-pallavi based on Dwijavanti, also including Ranjani, Kamas, Kaanada and Neelambari.Vittal Ramamoorthy on the violin was responsive and ideally well-mannered, in his accompanying style. Umayalpuram Mali on the mridangam was all that could be desired.Evocative and briskSikkil R. Gurucharan sang with R. Sathishkumar and R. Sankaranarayanan on the violin and the mridangam respectively to support him. Gurucharan, young as he is, knows what to eschew and what to highlight. He could be evocative and brisk at the same time.From the varnam in Ritigowlai, "Gananathane" in Saranga and "Maayamma" in Aahiri, and virtually to the end of the concert, he was at this evocative best, all through remaining engagingly live on the technical side. His Devamanohari was definitive, and "Evarikai" came off with remarkable clarity.After "Ardhanareeswaram" and a fast "Giripriyam Gangadharam" he went on to an elaborate and methodical ragam-tanam-pallavi with Kharaharapriya at the centre.Unnikrishnan's concert   was an enterprising  with  good accompanists &#151;  S. Varadarajan on the violin and Melakkaveri Balaji on the mridangam. But the concert suffered aesthetically because of the unbridled performance of the acoustic equipment. Unnikrishnan's Sahana was brief but comprehensive. "Emaana" came in for engaging improvisation. After an unadorned Anandabhairavi ("O Jagadamba") he went into Todi for a beautiful rendering of "Kaarthikeya." The raga rendering was explorative and evocative, and Unnikrishnan found the time to give a snug niche to Hindolam through tonal variation. Varadarajan's Todi was a beautiful classic performance.Gayatri Girish has a fluent voice, and she does not go for any excesses. There is economy and richness in her singing because she sings with special attention to melody and message. Usha Rajagopalan and V. Sivaraman accompanied her on the violin and the mridangam with quiet readiness and understanding. Her "Ardhanareeswaram" (Kumudakriya), "Siddham Irangadadenaiya" (Sahana) were pleasing, crisp and appropriately paced. Kalyani was the raga she chose for special attention &#151;  methodically developed, tonally perfect. Dr. N. Ramani's flute recital was an effortlessly classical exercise &#151;  not a wisp of strain, never a moment of fumbling, no jugglery, packed  with solid music. He never went into varieties, and yet everything carried the air of freshness and peace. S. Varadarajan on the violin was  quiet and competent, brief and pertinent, impeccable in touch. Guruvayur Dorai was  breezy, confident, unostentatious and yet the most eloquent accompanist on the mridangam, and Mohanram on the ghatam gave him fine support. The highlight was the succinct alapana of Begada prefacing "Sankarineeve". "Meenaakshi Memudam" (Varali) and "Chakkani Raja" Sakkaniraaja" in Karaharapirya were both fulfilling exercises.The curtain came down with the vocal recital of Mahati, accompanied by Meera Sivaramakrishnan (violin), Varadarajan (mridangam) and Paramasivam (kanjira). It was a good team, and Varadarajan's mridangam had resonance and precision.Mahati has a pliant voice that is able to move unerringly at all levels. If only she would modulate her voice  and eliminate the evidence of strain  in her effort.  Mahati's singing is a headlong rush, with no pause that allows the listener to soak in the music.   Her homework is thorough and obvious, and the recitation is efficient, but there is restless hurry and it does not sound  peaceful and soothing.Meera's Purvikalyani was compact and succinct. Todi brought out her virtuosity fully; she is very sensitive to sruti. There was a Meera bhajan that gave her the opening for the customary flirtation with the Hindustani mode.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072100150300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072100150302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VJUDICIOUS MIX OF YOUNG AND OLD MUSICIANS: Neyveli Santanagopalan (above) and Mahati.
p14
ss.