(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA delightful music festival
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis year's Thyagaraja Festival of the three-decade oldmusic Sabha - Vignana Samithi, concentrated  on projecting part of Andhra's best young talent. The five-day event held at the  Anandanagar Community Hall, featured Malladi Brothers of Vijayawada, Dwaram Lakshmi of Tirupati, Mandapaka Sarada of Vizag, Vishnu Bhotla Sisters (Saraswati and Krishnaveni) of Vijayawada and Rayaprolu Swarna.Up and coming vocalist Varanasi Sowmya was there too. According to Suri Venkateswarlu, the  secretary of the sabha and a musician himself, the audiences interest in Carnatic classical music is growing from festival to festival and many  talented young artistes are competing for a concert platform. The Malladi Brothers, Sriram Prasad and Ravi Kumar, appear to be hot names  not only here but also in the Chennai circuit, the Mecca of Carnatic music.They opened   Samithi's Thyagaraja Aradhana with their concert. Rendering in the company of Chennai based violinist Embar Kannan, were Hyderabad's hot names D.S.R. Murthy on mridangam and K. Shyam Kumar on kanjeera. The brothers began withSri Raaga Varnamfollowed by brisk invocation ofSri Ganapatiniin Sourashtram.Both these numbers were exercised  well. Ravi Kumar'sRanjanifor Durmargachara and Sriram Prasad'sThodi(Koluvamaregada) stood out as the best renditions of the concert. The brothers came out with forcefulneravalandswarasin both these prime numbers.Makelara Vicharamuin Ravichandrika that came later was marked byGood Swara Prasthara.Brilliant showMandapaka Sarada,  a Ph.D in Patnam's compositions  is also an associate professor in Andhra University and has published a few books on music. Her concert had a brilliantSadhinchenein Arabhi, a Pancharatna Kirtana of Thyagaraja and also a detailed Pantuvarali forSambho Mahadevawith a full-fledgednerevalandswaraexposition inRoopakam.Ora Joopuin Kannada Gowla andManavi Yaalakinchain Nalinakanti were other delights. Reetigowla essay for Thyagaraja'sNannu Vidachiwas a well-chiselled number. R Dinkar on the violin and Mandapaka Nagalakshmi on mridangam lent their support. Dr. Dwaram Lakshmi performed on  another day with R.Dinakar on the violin, Balasubrahmanyam on the mridangam and Prasad on the ghatam.She revealed excellent vocal culture in her main numberKalyani(Ethavunara) and other pieces. She has also essayed Kapi forInta Soukhyamuand drew good response.Tani Avartanamby the percussionists was an added charm for this number. Lakshmi opened withBrova Bharamain Bahudari withswaras.Nadatanumanisamin Chittaranjani was another impressive number of her concert.Rayaprolu Swarna is another best talent, though she is getting fewer  opportunities to perform. The late Susarla Siva Ram,  was her guru who initiated her into quality music. Thodi forEnduku Dayaraaduwas one of the highlights of her tasteful repertoire.Durmargacharain Ranjani Kanugontini in Bilahari were other pleasing numbers she rendered expressively, with Pawan Singh on violin and R. Srikanth on mridangam. Vishnu Bhotla Sisters - Saraswathi and Krishnaveni - make a new combination that is slowly gaining ground in carnatic concert circles in recent times.Disciples of veteran voco-violinist N.Ch.Krishnamacharyulu, they literally closed the 159th Thyagaraja Aradhana and 29th annual music festival of Vigjnana Samiti, with their impressive concert, displaying great respect for tradition. They choseKambhojias their main melody and renderedO Rangasaiin this.Nerevalandswaramwere a beauty.Good show throughoutEssaying of Varali forEtijanmawithnerevalandswaramwas another attraction.Vidulaku Mrokkedain Mayamalavagowla andOrajoopuin Kannada Gowla were other notable pieces. Senior violinist Kokkonda Subramanya Sarma and mridangam player  B.V.S. Sastry accompanied them. P Srinivasa Gopalan was on the morsing.Going by the mini concerts given by  young talent, Varanasi Sri Soumya, Gomatham Vasuki and R Swarna, they are sure to perform at more music sabhas in the  future. The traditional Panchartna Keertana Ganam, preceded byOoncha Vrittiwith J.Eswara Prasad  as Thyagaraja, recalling the saint's period was also  part of the festival.G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/10/stories/2006031002170300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/10/images/2006031002170301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSICAL ODE A performance at the Thyagaraja Festival.
p14
ss.