(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VClassical values to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANTo experience the music of the senior artistes featured in the `Monsoon Music Marvel' series organised by Balaganamrutham and the Karnataka College of Percussion (Bangalore) was to reconnect with the core values that power the classical form.To realise that there are no shortcuts to achieving musical excellence that can stand the test of time. And to reaffirm that there is no substitute for untiring effort and single-minded dedication. Several decades into their performing career, the Bombay Sisters, Saroja and Lalitha, have lost none of their zest or passion, as their concert at the Srinivasa Shastri Hall revealed.Gentle cadencesMysore Vasudevachar's `Brochevarevarura' exhibited sparkling facets of Khamas to advantage. An absorbing narrative unfolded in Lalitha's Poorvikalyani alapana through a compilation of firm concise phrases, the concluding prayogas softened by gentle cadences. Purandara Dasa's `Hanumantha deva namo' supported neraval and kalpanaswaras, with the kuraippu anchored at the gandhara drawing rousing applause.Tyagaraja's `Manavyala' in Nalinakanthi saw a lively percussive display that added zing to the krithi. Saroja's exposition of Kiravani scored with its spontaneous flowering of sancharas and accent on key phrases. The Bhadrachala Ramadas composition `Rama Rama' was moving in its serenity and simplicity and the natural gait of the attendant sarvalaghu swaras offered a plethora of delights to be savoured. The tukkadas `Ramakrishna Govinda' (Brindavani) and `Paarvai ondre podumae' (Suruti) were devout offerings, straight from the heart.Usha Rajagopalan on the violin exhibited immense perception. Her Kiravani raga was especially noteworthy for its free flowing, lyrical quality.K.R.Ganesh (mridangam) and Madipakkam Murali (ghatam) were in their element, embellishing the compositions with distinctive rhythmic patterns and presenting an absorbing tani.Fluent interpretationBangalore T.A.Ramamani's music is deeply rooted in the classical vocabulary, with a creative slant that lends an interesting angle to her fluent interpretation of krithi and alapana. This was particularly evident in her rendition of Tyagaraja's `Sobillu' in which the scope of the line `Dhara ruksaamaadulalo' for swarakshara was skilfully exploited with kalpanaswaras also capitalising on this aspect.The Bhairavi alapana strode a confident path through a thicket of stately sampadaya-fortified pidis that stood tall, while fast phrases were handled with assurance and precision. `Lalithe' in praise of the goddess Pravriddha Srimathi, from Tyagaraja's Lalgudi pancharatnam, was ornamented with apt neraval and swaras at `Teliyani.'Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Balambike' in Manoranjani was a neat surprise package delivered with aplomb.Weighty gamakas defined Varali, even as the listener was drawn into the vortex of Papanasam Sivan's compelling `Kaa vaa vaa,' where sangathis resonated with bhava.Shower of sancharasIn the main raga Khambodi, the shower of swift sancharas was well balanced by areas of repose. The upper octave witnessed a spate of super-fast passages leading up to the gandhara, and at every point the artiste was acutely aware of the importance of maintaining a sense of proportion, consequently never going overboard.Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavathar's `Rathna kanchuka dharini' was yet another gift from the vocalist's repertoire.The violinist, Akkarai Subbalakshmi painted sensitive portraits of Bhairavi and Khambodi, with the accent on a contemplative search. Thanjavur Kumar (mridangam) and H. Sivaramakrishnan (ganjira) provided percussive support marked by finesse.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/20/stories/2006102002500800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/20/images/2006102002500802.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.A.Ramamani
p14
ss.