(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEnthralling  concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULT. M. Krishna and Ranganatha Sharma  delighted rasikas in Thrissur with their recitals that were organised by Sree Thaygabrahma Sangeetha Sabha.Impressive performanceEndowed with a resonant voice, Krishna opened with the Thyagaraja composition in Ritigoula, `Cheraravathe.'As he slipped into another Thyagaraja composition `Nenenthuvedakura,' the only one in raga Karnataka Behag, Krishna's skill in creating a mood of devotion could be experienced. That he could maintain this intrinsic aspect of Carnatic music throughout was perhaps the hallmark of his recital.Another example of his virtuosity was the essaying of the Dikshitar composition `Paradevatha' in Dhanyasi. He exhibited amazingmanodharmain its rendition and a quest for aesthetics appeared to be his forte. Krishna's disposition towards rare ragas came to the fore with Kalgada, thejanyaof Gayakapriya. He chose Syamasastri's `Parvathy Ninnu' in Roopakam for the rendition.Saveri raga's essential mood of supplication was created through an exquisite alapana next. Even as it vouched for his creative instincts, the melodic content of the rendition was overpowering.Only Bhairavi and Kalyani were attempted in the pallavi, as the musician had to race against time due to some exigencies.Trisa jathi tripudareceived a fitting avartana by Jayakrishnan (mridangam) and A. S. Sajith (ghatom). Anuroop's violin provided commendable support. Krishna wound up with a tillana in Khamas.Ranganatha Sharma's recital will be long remembered for the Thyagaraja kriti in Mukhari, `Enthu Ninne Vannim Thunu' and an alluringragam,tanam,pallavi.The elaboration of Panthuvarali in the next, brought in innumerable shades of the raga. Kapi, Ranjini, Bindumalini andSindhubhairavi were introduced judiciously, which the audience appreciated.Technical virtuosityThe selection ofkhanta jathi tripudaintrisa nadawas another exposition of his technical virtuosity.The execution of this intricate rhythm of 90 beats by G. Chandrasekharan Nair (mridangam) won him a long ovation. C. Rajendran accompanied on the violin and G. Manoharan on the ghatom.Other kritis included Muthayyabhagavathar's `Gamganapathe' in Hamsadwani and Roopaka talam, Dikshitar's `Madhurambikayaam Sada' in Hemavathy raga and Roopaka talam, Anna Swami Sastri's `Paramapavani' in raga Atana in Adi talam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/25/stories/2005112501270300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.