(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUnni's mixed fare
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIUnnikrishnan gained popularity not because of his scholarly  acumen in Carnatic vocalism, but  because of his playback singing talent, that too after Rehman used his voice.The Ravindra Bharati auditorium witnessed record crowds spilling into aisles to witness his show. The South Indian Cultural Association (SICA)  thought it wise to present him in the "Special concerts festival"  at its foundation day  celebrations.SICA,  the oldest music sabha,  had organised several memorable events during  its long span.    The only complaint people in the twin cities have about SICA is that it ignores Telugu musicians. It would be good if they were to hold a program for young and talented vocalists from the State  at least once in a month at Ravindra Bharati.Unnikrishnan's vocal concert was a real change from the regular. His style of rendition sounded rather breathless, as there were very few pauses between long musical phrases, be itraga prastharaorswsara prasthara.He maintained excellent quality of melodic lilt and theraga bhava.  But the problem was that his rendition lacked clarity ofsahitya. It was shocking. Even asahityaoriented Annamayya  in folk idiom (tandanana hure) was literally rolled out, breezily.Singing in the company of two seasoned accompanists Vittal Rama Murthy on violin and Ganapathi Vaman on mridangam, Unni's  music was a picture of a bizarrekirtanaand breezy spells of raga and swara  with a pleasant voice culture.Deva Deva Kalayami, of Swati Tirunal inMayamalavagowlawith a briefneravaland expansiveswaraswas one of  the dominating numbers in the earlier part.Shanmukhapriyafor a Tamil composition of Papanasam Sivan came for an expansive delineation.Mukhariwas another detailed rendition by Unnikrishnan.Welcome departureThe third great number from him wasSankarabharanamto which he gave good time for expansion. Hisakaarasand thegamakastructures revealed his highly flexible vocal culture and ease.He could negotiate  through three octaves of theragaand thenswara prasthara. The rendition ofAkshaya Linga Vibhoof Muthuswamy Dikshitar  with a smart nereval and methodicalswarakalpanamade the number a good one.Though he began saying he was going for a briefRagam TanamandPallaviexercise inKeeravani, he made it an extensive and most important piece.He took good time forPallavirendition and toRagamalikaswarastoo. This was inAdi Talam. For once he looked steady and well composed and a bit relaxed too while presenting theRagam TanamandPallavi. This was the best piece of the concert.Vittal Ramamurthy on violin was simply brilliant in giving a perfect shape to theragain  the short  time that an accompanist generally gets.SankarabharanamandKeeravaniwere notable.Ganapathi on mridangam also made a difference with his scholarly play, what with Unnikrishnan looking at him constantly for inspiration and appreciation.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/05/stories/2005080502320300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/05/images/2005080502320301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHIGH NOTE Unnikrishnan during his performance.
p14
ss.