(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSumptuous musical feast
p3
sVnews
p4
VK.C. ASOKThe 31st Sri Neelankanta Sivan Sangeetha Aradhana held in Thiruvananthapuram showcased the concerts of several prominent Carnatic musicians.  The credit goes to Sri Neelakanta Sivan Sangeetha Sabha, the organisers, for coming up with a discerning roster of performers. The six-day music festival was held in connection with the 106th Samadhi Aradhana of the saint composer Neelakanta Sivan. The festival also gave an opportunity to many up-and-coming musicians  to demonstrate their talent.Nalli Chinnasami Chetty (Nalli Silks, Chennai) inaugurated the festival, which was followed by a captivating concert by Sudha Raghunathan. Her sweet and pliable voice, coupled with immaculateswaranjanam, made her concert an unforgettable experience.  Poorvikalyani (`Ananda nadamaduvatille...') and Kharaharapriya (`Pakkala...'), the main raga, were given equal emphasis.Beginning the concert with a Neelakanta Sivan composition in Natakrurnji (`Vinayaka tuna sai...'), the vocalist studded her concert with virutams and ragamalikas. Pakala Ramdas (violin), Sivaraman (mridangam) and Rajagopalan (ganchira) provided the accompaniment.Father-daughter teamShubha Ganesan, who sang the next day, was accompanied by her father, Ganesan (mridangam), Padmakrishnan (violin) and Kottayam Unnikrishnan (ghatom). `Vavaram tarum...' a Papanasam Sivan composition in Latangi and `Upachara mulanu...,' a Tyagaraja composition in Bhairavi, were taken up for elaboration.Perumbavoor C.S. Sajeev seemed to represent the young generation of vocalists who sticks to tradition. With his soft andsruthi suddhavoice, he sang a poignantalapanaof Varali (`Karunai purikitu...') and the main in Kamboji. Tanam and a Tyagaraja composition, `O ranga Sai...' in the raga followed.However, the star of the show was the veteran mridangam artiste T.K. Moorthy. The octogenarian artiste's finishing strokes and stimulating thani showed that good music could turn back the clock for him. His disciple Harinarayanan too did a good job.Singing bhava-laden Chawkalakeerthanasseems to be T. M. Krishna's  style.  The main in Sankarabharanam (`Dakshina moorthe...') and the sub-main in Mukhari (`Endraikku Sivakripai...') reflected this aspect. The niravals as well as the sarvalakhu swarams sung in both the compositions were admirable.The concert had a racy start with the Bhariavi Ada tala varnam and `Rama nannu brovara...' in Harikamboji. `Balakrishna bhavayami... ,' a Dikshitar kriti in Gopikavasantam and `Parvathy Ninnune...' in Kalgada were two rare pieces sung by him. The thani in Misra Jampa talam was expertly handled by Trivandrum R. Vaidhyanathan (mridangam) and Ududppi Sreedhar (ghatom), while T.H. Subramonyam's melodious violin seemed to be singing with the vocalist.Family affairMambalam sisters' ( R.Vijayalakshmi and R. Chitra) elegant concert on the fifth day was a family affair.  All performers expect Trivandrum Rajagopal (mridangam)  were from the same family. Playing the ganchira was the vocalists' father, K.S. Rangachary, and on the violin was their sister R. Hemalatha.Chitra chose `Oraru mukhane...,' a Neelakanta Sivan composition in Arabhi, for elaboration, while `Kovama megata...' in the main raga Todi was picked up by Vijayalakshmi. Neelakanta Sivan's ragamalika composition stringing 18 ragas (`Nadanai nambum...'), `Sambo mahadeva...' (Bouli) and `Soorya moorthe namosthuthe... ' (Saurashtram) were among the less-heard pieces that were presented.The final day of the music festival saw three maestros  -   Thrissur V. Ramachandran (vocal),  M. Chandrasekharan (violin) and  Mavelikkara Velukutty Nair (mridangam)  -   coming up with an exhilarating performance. Elanjimel Suseel Kumar, on the ghatom, also rose to the occasion and flawlessly supported the trio. In his resonant voice, the vocalist essayed Poorvikalyani (`Ananda nadamaduvatille...'), Reetigoula (`Oraru mukhane...'), and Ameerkalyani (`Sivanee Ninai maname...'). The main `Sivane ninainthu...,' a Neelakanta Sivan composition, was in Kamboji, while `Sree chakra raga nilaye...,' a GNB creation in raga Sivasakti, was a rare piece.After tukkadas in ragas like Anandabhairavi and Surutti, the concert was wound up with a raga malika viruttam and mangalam. While Mavelikkara Krishnankutty Nair's musical hand made his nadas and gumukis soothing to the ears, M. Chandrasekharan's bow made the violin sing each phrase.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080400990300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080400990303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVIRTUOSO PERFORMERS: (From top) T.M. Krishna, Thrissur V. Ramachandran and Sudha Raghunathan were some of the singers who participated in the 31st Sri Neelakanta Sivan Sangeetha Aradhana.
p14
ss.