(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA mix of talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VVignana Samiti, one of the oldest music sabhas in the twin cities, organised Thyagaraja&#8217;s 161st Aradhana festival last week combined with its own 31st anniversary celebrations. This was a large scale festival featuring more than a 100 Carnatic musicians in different roles &#8211; as vocalists and instrumentalists including some of the leading artistes of the south. As part of the tradition set by Vignana Samiti, a number of religious heads and scholars were felicitated  by spiritual guru Sadguru Sivavananda Murthy, chief guest of the day.  The festival was traditionally opened with a nadaswaram by Pamuleti Narasimham and party, besides a Pancharatna Kirtana  andunchavritti.Chandankumar&#8217;s flute solo  marked the concert sessions of leading artistes. This was marked by the raga essay of Poorvi Kalyani forGnanamosagaradawithneravuandswaram.Niravadisukhain Ravichandrika and Ramakadhasudha in Madhyamavati with a raga essay andswaramwere the main numbers. Veteran Kokkanda Subrahmanya Sarma on violin and G. Ramachandran on mridangam lent support.On the following day, there was a rare solo by top ranking violinist, Peri Sriramamurthy. Due to lack of opportunities he has been mostly confined to an accompanist&#8217;s role. With Nemani on mridangam and Janardan on ghatam, Peri reeled out a number of popular compositions with perfectraga bhava.Twelve-year-old wonder kid of Chennai K. Satyanarayanan displayed mastery in giving a full fledged Carnatic concert on keyboard that simply stunned the audience with the way he produced fastgamakasand glides using the inbuilt technology. He is the disciple of Mandolin Srinivas who too tamed the mandolin for Carnatic medium. Watching him playing major raga Thodi (Koluvamare) withneravuandswaraswas in itself a thrilling experience. Ananatha Krishnan on violin, T. R. Suryanarayana on mridangam and R. Srikanth on kanjira lent apt support.Then there was T. V. Sankaranarayanan who took the festival to new heights with hisrendition. His son and disciple Sankar Mahadevan served as supporting voice. Surya Deepti on violin, Jayabhasker on mridangam and Srinivasa Gopalan on morsing matched the show with their own contribution. Kapi and Mohana essays underlined his performances. Swathi Srikrishna, another known name in Chennai and Kochi Valsan J. Menon&#8217;s vocal show too were an experience to enjoy. Swathi impressed with the rendition of ragas ofSahana(Emanatichitivo)andSriranjaniforBhuvini Dasudanewith extensiveneravalandswarasin both were the main draw.  A Musical feature titledThyagaraja&#8217;s Ramakadhasudhaby K. Seshulatha and Neetha Chandrasekhar supported by a scholarly commentary by T. K.V. Raghavan was a special attraction.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/15/stories/2008021550730300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.