(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VComposers who combined bhakti and music
p3
sVnews
p4
VKRIPA SUBRAHMANIAMIn his lecture-demonstration on Ramanathapuram (Poochi) Srinivasa Iyengar, B. Rajam Iyer was given vocal support by Mani and Rajaram, accompanied by Mullaivasal Chandramouli on the violin and Guruvayur Dorai on the mridangam.Ramanathapuram was a great seat of music. The Maharaja of Ramanathapuram, Sri Bhaskara Sethupathi was a connoisseur of music. Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar was born in 1860 in Pappankulam in Ramanathapuram district.When the Maharaja heard him sing while he was very young, he was astonished at Srinivasa Iyengar's musical ability that he took him to his palace. To further his music interest, he put Srinivasa Iyengar under the tutelage of Patnam Subramania Iyer, who was called "Chinna Tyagayya" and Srinivasa Iyengar did gurukula vasam. Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar has composed 54 compositions that are available today. His Mudra was Srinivasa.For his compositions, Srinivasa Iyengar chose ragas handled by Patnam Subramania Iyer. Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar was a "Bhakta Siromani" and each word in his songs emanated from his inbred spirituality. He had an all-round knowledge and he also learnt English.Salient featuresRajam Iyer started his demo with a varnam in raga Ananda Bhairavi in Adi talam. He mentioned the salient features of "Gopuccha Yati" in which the sahitya of a composition decreases gradually in a descending order. Later he sang "Chintha Theerchuda" in Sowrashtram composed in the same pattern of "Ninnu Juchi" of Patnam Subramania Iyer. Srinivasa Iyengar's Bilahari kriti, "Sri Rama Nannu Brova," Kanda Chapu tala was modelled after "Parithana Michite" of Patnam Subramania Iyer. Each kriti of Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar's is a masterpiece.Poochi Iyengar's "Sri Raghukula" is unparalleled. Devakottai Narayana Iyengar learnt this kriti and included it in his concerts. This piece is great because it is devoid of any allied raga pidis. Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar imaged himself to be the Nayaki and Lord Venkatesa as Nayaka in this Huseni kriti.Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar created the kriti `Raghunatha Nannu' in a raga named Sura Ranjani, his own creation, which reminds the Kadanakuthuhalam piece of Patnam Subramania Iyer. Rajam Iyer sang `Parthasarathi Ninnu' in Madhyamavathi and later rendered the Khamas raga Javali, `Marulu Konna.' He concluded the lec-dem with the Paras raga tillana.Chingleput Ranganathan offered his comments on the lec-dem. Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan, conference president, commended the scholarship of Rajam Iyer. Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar composed a kirtana on Tyagaraja.And why that suffix, which translates into insect? Seshagopalan supplied the answer. He said Srinivasa Iyengar got the name "Poochi" because he had a sareeram like a vandu (bee) and gave karvai with clarity. He had a sharp composing brain. The people of Andhra called him "Bujji" which meant "beloved child" and in later years this became `Poochi.' Srinivasa Iyengar composed the kriti "Saraguna Palimpa" to treat a form of arthritis he was suffering from.  Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar's approach to music was such that he composed kritis like a model composer.The composer had an in-built kalapramana and he composed kritis accordingly, which shows his mastery over music.T.K.Govinda Raopresented a lec-dem on the compositions of Haridasa supported by Dr. Hemalatha on the violin and Shertalai Sri Ananthakrishnan on the mridangam. Radha and Namboodiri gave vocal support.Govinda Rao traced the origin of bhakti movement that brought the Haridasas on the scene.  A Haridasa is one who thinks, talks and acts with devotion to the Lord, Govinda Rao explained.The 13th and 14th centuries saw the Dasa movement take root. Madhvacharya propagated Dwaita philosophy, taking it to the people.  Madhwacharya's sishya was Narahari Theertha. His ideas were brought forth in poetic forms. After nearly two centuries, Sri Pada Rayar and his sishya Vyasarayar established a Haridasa tradition.  Haridasas composed songs in the form of Padams, Suladi, Dwipathi, Tripati, Chaupathi and Ashtapati. These sahityas were so beautiful and poetic that one was inspired to sing them. The Dasas were all adept at both Sanskrit and Vedanta. All their compositions were based on life experiences.Sri Narahari Theertha had his Mudhra as `Sri Raghu Kula,' Sri Pada Raya as `Ranga Vittala,' Sri Vyasa Raya as `Sri Krishna,, `Sirikrishna' and `Krishna,' Purandara Dasa as `Purandara Vittala' and Kanakadasa as `Nele Adikesava.' Govidna Rao spoke of Rama Dasar who was a Muslim by birth.Govinda Rao's appeal was that one should grasp the meaning before singing the composition.  And he emphasised on diction.  He said Gana, Naya and Desiyam were essential. He sang `Hanuma Bheema' in Mohana raga, `Roga Harana' in Bhageshree raga, `Hari Chittha Satya' in raga Jhonpuri, Tala Beku in Bhairavi raga, Adago, a Ragamlika, starting with Khamas.Talking about Purandara Dasa, Govinda Rao said that he was able to give the essence of the Dasavatara in one line, in one stanza and in a whole kriti and this reveals his musical abilities. Govinda Rao signed off with a Mangalam starting with `Makutake Mangalam' in Madhyamavathi Raga, which describes Kesadi Pada Varnanam of the Lord depicting each Avatara.Vidushi R. Vedavalli offered her expert comments saying Govinda Rao was an authority on Dasa kritis. Seshagopalan reiterated that music without bhakti was like a flower without fragrance. He wanted sampradaya to be kept in its pristine form. He said that initially Namasankeertana was considered an Upasana, which later became a profession and now it has become a business. He also said that we have lost out on many Dasar Padams and some have changed with the times. He appealed to the institutions like the Music Academy to take up a project of unearthing Dasar Padams that have gone out of vogue.Suguna Purushottamanpresented Gopala Krishna Bharati's songs. Gopala Krishna Bharati (1810-95) was famous for his `Nandanar Charithram' and he was a vaggeyakara of great merit. Most of his songs are on Lord Siva. Govinda Sivam was his guru and he learnt Hindustani Music from Ramadasar. Gopala Krishna Bharati was a contemporary of Tyagaraja. The famous kirtana `Sabapathikku Veru Deivam' was composed when he visited the saint poet. His Manji kriti `Varugalamo Aiyya' is a rare one. He has composed kritis in Jhonpuri, Mandu, Behag, Punnaga Varali, Chenchurutti, Nadhanamakriya and many Hindustani ragas. He had a very good command over sahityam and this is seen in his compositions. Suguna sang `Paarka Paarka' in Harikhambodi, which had a special Madhyamakala charanam.In the multiple charanam of the Sama raga kriti, `Varuvaro Varam Tharuvaro' the last line is in Madhyamakalam. `Tillaithalam' in Sama raga has multiple charanam with Antya Prasam. Normally we know only varnams set in Ata tala but he has composed a song in Ata Tala, `Natanam Adinaar,' which is famous in dance format, and has interesting solkattu. His mudra is `Balakrishna' and `Gopalakrishna.' He had a sishya parampara and he also played the violin. His composiitons abound in Bhakti Rasa.Sivan's insiprationYoga and Vedanta Sastram are seen in his compositions. Mention was made about the song Sivakama Sundari in Jaganmohini raga with Athitha Eduppu, which is said to have inspired Papanasam Sivan who composed his Mukhari krithi Sivakama Sundari with Athitha Eduppu. The Khambodi kirtana Thiruvadi Charanam is full of bhava and the tune reflects the bhava of the composition.Bharati has composed kirtanas of Ninda Sthuthi, musical operas like Nandanar Charitram, songs on Thiru Neelakanta Naayanaar and on Kaaraikaal Ammaiyar. In 1861, circa, Durai published his musical works and this was the first publication.U.V.Swaminatha Iyer has written his biography. Annamalai University has published his Tamil kirtanas. Vazhi Maraithirukkude is sung both in Thodi and Nattakurinji. `Sattre Vilagi Irum Pillaai' is sung both in Hamsadhwani and in Poorvikalyani. `Epo Varuvaro' is also sung in Khamas and Jhonpuri.A Nondi Chindhu of Nandanar Charithram was sung to highlight the beauty of the sahitya. Suguna also mentioned the charitable qualities of Gopalakrishna Bharati who donated liberally for social causes. Suguna was supported by K. Gayathri, on the violin by Dr. Hemalatha and on the mridangam by Thanjavur Kumar.N. Ramanathan and Vellore Ramabadhran gave their expert comments. Seshagopalan in his comments made a valid point that Gopalakrishna Bharati reached an Advaitic state of mind that he transcended caste and creed and saw the Advaitic truth beyond the Annamaya Kosa of all Jivas. He concluded the session saying Gopalakrishna Bharati was a great Nadopasaka .Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/05/stories/2007010502310500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/05/images/2007010502310503.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT. K. Govinda Rao.
p14
ss.