(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VInimitable strength and spirit
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANJANI GOVINDINTERESTING MEDLEY: Ramakrishnan and party."I attempt something novel in all my concerts, except in pure devotional music sessions," said H. Ramakrishnan during  the New Year concert of Nungambakkam Cultural Academy, at Rama Rao Kala Mantap. To usher in the New Year, the sabha thought of traditional yet auspicious accompaniment of the tavil beats by maestro A. K. Palanivel, along with violin by Tiruvallur Parthasarathy, harmonium by Lakshmi Narasimhan and kanjira by Sundar Kumar.Aural treatRamakrishnan's offering was quite an interesting segment, in that he had his tanam in Khambodi (for Tyagaraja's "Sri Raghuvara'') in combination with the sharp resonant thumps of the tavil. And what an aural treat it was when the percussive mood softly slipped into tani avartanam after the pallavi, with interchanging soft and hard laya. The permutations and combinations of the tavil and kanjira came as lively exchanges.In line with his different styles of schooling (S. Ramanathan, M. D. Ramanathan, Semmangudi Srivivasa Iyer, D. K. Jayaraman and Tripoonthurthi Venkatesan) and an assimilation of varied genres (Carnatic, devotional and light), Ramakrishnan offered a mixed bag. Crystal clear sahitya came across in Mysore Vasudevachar's "Sri Chamundeshwari'' in Bilahari and Venkata Subbaiyar's "Muddu Krishna Me Mudham Dehi'' in Jenjuti. This is where one has to reflect upon the former Doordarshan news reader's other vocal passions such as Konnakkol.Ramakrishanan took up Gopalakrishna Bharati's "Marghazi Maadam,'' a slice of the composer's Nandanaar Charitram where the lyrics highlight a plea to the Lord of Chidambaram for entry into his quarter on Arudra Day. The appeal came across softly in the best of ragas suited for the frame of mind, Nadanamakriya. The unhurried and elastic pace continued for Mysore Lingaraja's "Shingara Lahari'' in Nilambari where the harmonium and violin enhanced the lyrics, while Andavan Pichai's "Ekamakhshi'' in Yedukula Khambodi was a detailing of the splendour of Shakti.Ramakrishnan's energy is to be hailed, for, in spite of a polio attack in childhood that paralysed his movement, it is his inimitable strength and spirit that have taken him this far in music. He plays the kanjira and mridangam too and has released three audio albums and was recently at the Illinois State University for a lec-dem on "An intro to South Indian Classical Music." "Critic Subbudu has accompanied me on the keyboard for my vocals," says Ramakrishnan with pride.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012002420600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.