(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VQawalis that stirred
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIThe department of culture has been quite active these days with the various programmes it has been conducting Recently, , it featured a Hyderabad Qawali  Festival at Ravindra Bharati, close on the  heels of a Ghazal festival.Renditions by local qawali  groups of Hyderabad and some from outside the state enthralled the Hyderabadi audience. Reflecting Deccan culture, the qawali programmes attracted the city's music lovers as well as people from far off.A notable feature was that the fesitval was well attended by the young and old. On the inaugural day, Heena Kausar stole the show. She displayed all the requisites of a Qawali singer &#151;  good vocal range, expression, smartness to come out with repartees and above all a sense of music  lyrical content.Evergreen tunesKahin Ke Allah Ho Akbar Chaleejan Pawanand the evergreen qawaliDama Dam Mast Kalandarwere the most enjoyable numbers. Sultan Khalid, Nazir Ahmed, Yasin Khan and Khalid lent instrumental and vocal support. Later Atik Hussein Khan got up on  stage with his party and pleased the audience with a rendition of devotionals likeKrupa Karo Maharaj Moinuddin.The other qawali  program that spellbounded the audience on another day was that of Chandrasekhar and Party from Baroda.They unleashed some of the popular filmy qawalis  especially of Rafi and others.E Agar Dushman Jamanafrom the filmHum Kisise Kum Nahin,Suhanalla Hai Hasin BehirafromKashmir Ke Kali,Parda Pe ParadafromAmar, Akbar, Anthonywere a treat.On the same day, the other team  was Syed Ahmed Khan and party. They came out with some chosen qawalis . Khan Saheb on tabla and Naseer Mohd. Sharif on dholak lent percussion support.Rafiq Dildar and party of Hyderabad presented some devotionals that carried  the popular message that 'service to humans is service to god'.Mere Allah Tu Sabka Waari Hai,Mere Laj Meri Laaj Akhayya, were all mostly devotional pleading for human safety.Good performanceIn the second part of the program, Mohd. Mehboob Bandan Waje and party entertained well. Hamid Khalid and Waheed Niyazi with their respective groups presented qawalis adding familiar songs to their list, likeDama Dum Mast KalandarandSab Se Pyara Allah Tero Nam.The  philosophic composition &#151;Madina Me Thodi Jagah Chahta Hun Ya Allahwas quite appealing. Fareeduddin, Syed Hussain, Amanullah were in the group, playing different instruments.Naseer Taj and Nagpur's  Anjum Saba Quavvali figured in the end.Allah Hee Dekh Diya Madinaand other songs were rendered by qawals  Wazir Ahmed, Noorchand and Sayyad Khalid lending support on instruments.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/10/stories/2006031002190300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/10/images/2006031002190302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHina Kausar present a qawali.
p14
ss.