(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VViolin  at its best
p3
sVnews
p4
VAmutham AM 5041 C.D.  -   Carnatic Classical  -   Rainbow  -   Kunnakkudi Vaidynathan  -    Rs. 150.AS THE years advance, Kunnakkudi R. Vaidyanathan's zest, enthusiasm and energy in his violin artistry seem to have increased manifold. His audio performance for Amutham Music is comparable to an assorted box of chocolates with different tastes and flavours that are results of the vidwan evolving a style of great populist appeal. The songs that have well stood the test of time have been played with the customary Kunnakkudi vigour, verve and vibrancy.Fifteen songs, including  Tyagaraja's "Marugelara" in Jayantasri, "Paratpara" in Vachasapti by Sivan, "Arumo Aval" in Mand by Kannan Iyengar, "Venkatachala Nilayam" of Purandaradasa, the film hit, "Thunbam Nergayil" in Desh by Bharatidasan and Rajaji's inimitable ragamalika, "Kurai Onrum Illai." There can be no two opinions about Kunnakkudi being an entertainer, quite exceptional.ChallengingDhvani Audio DAC 1001  -   Carnatic Classical  -   Whistling Ragas  -   T. S. Niveditha  Rs.40.To give even an hour's concert of oral whistling replete with raga alapana, kritis and swara prastharas is a challenge demanding percentage breath control, stamina and constant practice. T. S. Niveditha, daughter of mridanga vidwan T. Shyamsunder, has given a creditable programme under the banner of Dhvani Audio.She reveals considerable `Sangita Gnanam' in her kriti versions of a variety of composers such as Dikshitar, Papanasam Sivan, Sadashiva Brahmendra, Tyagaraja, Uthukkadu Venkata Kavi, Swami Dayananda Saraswati and Arunagirinathar. The accompanists are T. Hemamalini (violin), T. Shyam Sundar (mridangam) and A. S. Sankar (ghatam). As an innovative venture, the artiste has to be commended.MellifluentINRECO C.D. IP  -   5229  -   Carnatic Classical Vocal  -   Pancharatnangal  -   various artistes  -    Rs. 200.Five artistes who are in the mainstream of contemporary Carnatic music have been featured in the C.D. album of Inreco titled, `Pancharatnangal' Unnikrishnan with his Tiruvisainallur Venkatrama Iyer's kriti, "Paripalimsumani" in Suddhasaveri, alapana of Lathangi and "Aparadamula" with pleasing neraval and swara embellishments gives a sprightly tone and tenor to the proceedings. Bombay Jayashri's short sketch of Saveri, polished and placid, is a melodic prelude to Periyasami Thooran's "Muruga Muruga" followed a mellifluent "Mathangi" in Ramapriya (Rama Manohari in Dikshitar parlance). Sanjay Subramaniam presents a scholarly précis of Sahana, and a moving interpretation of Papanasam Sivan's "Chitham Irangadhadu."His Varali elaboration and Tyagaraja's "Ne Pogada Kunte" were classical music with the essential ingredients. "Bhakthuni Charitramu" of Tyagaraja and Papanasam Sivan's Hamsanandi song, "Maadhava Maya" by S. Sowmya have a dignified deportment reflecting her pedigree musical lineage. Vijay Siva's viruttam in Dhanyasi, "Balakrishnan Pada Malar" by Papanasam Sivan, and a not too familiar kriti of Tyagaraja in Kedaragowla "Ramuni Maravagave," eschewing the superfluous and retaining the significant, capture rasika attention.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/25/stories/2005022502360400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.