(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA classical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VBombay Jayashree is a seasoned artiste who can quickly get in to the groove of things &#8211; and that is exactly what she did on Tuesday as she performed in the Golden Jubilee Finale celebrations of South Indian Cultural Association (SICA). Her voice seemed in fine fettle and she dished out quick items, one after another, in swift succession to a jam-packed Ravindra Bharathi.Starting with the Poorvikalyani piece of Swathi Thirunal,Devadeva Jagadeesha, she quickly settled down withSabhapathikku, the popular Gopalakrishna Bharathi composition inAbhogi. Kedaram is an extremely soft and sensitive raga andAnanda Natanaprakasham, the Dikshitar Krithi, shines like a crowning jewel in this raga. Jayashree used the deep timbre of her voice to bring out the ragabhavato good effect.Next she chose Sahana for elaboration. Her measured outlook here added beauty to this exquisite raga.Vandanamufrom Thyagaraja&#8217;sPrahalada Bhakthi Vijayam, was deftly dealt with and she sang an elaborate neraval at Vegara Karunasagara. Mirdangam player Arun Prakash enhanced the sweetness of this piece by providing apt support.His style of under-playing and modulated playing to bring out the essence of the piece delighted everyone.The next piece wasNeevadane Ganain Saranga. The tempo of the song was brisk but Jayashree brought out the flavour of the raga. Kharahara Priya was the centre piece of the concert. Jayashree unhurriedly built up the raga piece by piece in which she wove in some nice Akhara pidis. The delineation of this raga by H.N. Bhaskar on the violin was very well done and much appreciated.Prakala Nilapadi, the superb krithi of Thyagaraja was sung at a swift pace. She etched out a detailed neraval and ended with appropriateKalpanaswarams. Arun Prakash, again excelled in embellishing the krithi with his discerning trailing. He played a delightfully crisptaniwith K.V. Gopalakrishnan on the Kanjira.Thethukdasection started with the Soordas Bhajan,Hey Govind Hey Gopal. This was closely followed by a Narayana Theertha Tarangam,Mrgayathamadhavamin Behag. Next came,Jayajaya Deva Hare, a Jayadeva Ashtapadi in Sindhubhairavi. The concert ended with a Lalgudi thillana in Mandu which Jayashree rendered with gusto.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/05/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/05/29/stories/2009052950690300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/05/29/images/2009052950690301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn her elementBombay Jayashri performing at Ravindra Bharathi.
p14
ss.