(dp1
Vheadline
p2
V&#8216;Music is in my blood'
p3
sVnews
p4
VHeir to a musical legacy, Carnatic vocalist Abhishek Reghuram wears his crown lightly. Grandson of the late mridangam maestro Palghat Raghu, Abhishek has a lot to live up to. However this rising star of Carnatic music is unruffled at the thought of great expectations. Excerpts from an interview:Musical tiesI grew up in an atmosphere that was filled with music. My grandfather [Palghat Raghu] used to conduct mridangam classes at home. My cousin Anand and I would sit and watch as he conducted the classes. Kettu, kettu,I gradually picked it up. The classes helped me develop an interest in music and in developing rhythmic knowledge. My mother, Usha, a violinist, is Lalgudi Jayaraman's niece. My aunt (mother's sister) is Jayanthi Kumaresh, the veena artiste. Music is in my blood.PercussionI started playing the mridangam just like that; I never learnt the basics. I started learning in earnest under my grandfather at the age of five. He was a strict task master. Hearing ganjira player G. Harishanker play, I decided to learn to play the instrument from my grandfather although Harishanker Sir taught me fingering techniques. Today I play the mridangam as a hobby and perform on the ganijra every now and then.Turning to vocalsWe had a rich collection of gramophone records that my grandfather used to play. My favourite was one by T.V. Sankaranarayan and I would listen to it over and over again. As a child, I would imitate these artistes. My grandmother, who felt I had talent, insisted I study Carnatic vocal. My mother was my first guru. I started advanced training under my guru, P.S. Narayanaswamy, in 1994.Percussion instrument vis-&#224;-vis vocalsTraining in percussion instruments helps when you sing. Every aspect of Carnatic music has a sense of time in it. When you sing a song you sing to a rhythm, when you sing a raga you sing according to a pace that you vary according to the situation. For even that pace, there is a sense of time in it. That sense of rhythm is very important while singing.ArangettamI did not have a formal arangettam. My first stage performance was when I was nine in Bangalore. It was a small concert. As I was unaware of the importance of the occasion, I went on stage without any jitters. From 1997, from the age of 12, I have been performing regularly. Having a musical lineage helped as I didn't have to be introduced to the music scene.Child prodigyI had a fairly normal childhood. I watched cricket, movies&#8230; I did my graduation in mathematics from Vivekananda College and then joined Anna University for my masters in computer science. I could not complete my masters though as it was too hectic. And no, there are no regrets in having entered the music field at such a young age; it's paying off now.Creating a nicheI think it is important for an artiste to have a a style of his own. When a rasika attends a concert, he looks forward to &#8216;something'; the artiste has to be able to give that something.Expressive ragasShangmughapriya, Thodi, Kalyani and Gamanashramam are some of my favourites. After a point, the music becomes a means of expression, just like when you are in conversation. You sing to convey certain things. I find these ragas beautiful to convey even subtle emotions such as anger, suspicion, fear, irritation&#8230;Fusion musicJayanthi Kumaresh has a band called Indian Spice, where we aim at presenting Indian music with a contemporary feel to it. The base will be Indian music but it will have mix of jazz, folk, Latin&#8230;influences.AlbumsI have just released an album of mine called &#8216;Ecstasy of Annamayya.' Earlier I had released an album called &#8216;Makarandam.' I lend my voice to various albums also.Living up to a musical lineageSinging is a passion and I have never felt the pressure to live up to anything or anybody. When I am on stage, I forget the audience; I sing for myself. When a rasika comes and says &#8216;I enjoyed your performance,' I feel happy and sad. Happy, because I touched their hearts in some little way and sad because there is so much more music I want to give them.First guruMy grandfather and I shared a great bond. My 24 years with him enriched me in so many ways. I learnt so many things from him. And not just musically. He inculcated various values that are needed for a good musician: discipline, commitment, dedication&#8230; It is hard to explain how I felt when he accompanied me on his mridangam during my concerts; he uplifted it. When you know there is an artiste on stage whose sole purpose is to uplift your concert, it is an inexplicable feeling. He was a selfless artiste.InterestsI enjoy watching movies and am a great fan of Kamal Hassan. I also like going for walks.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/11/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/11/27/stories/2009112751030200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/11/27/images/2009112751030202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VThe singer with his grandfather Palghat Raghu.
p14
ss.