(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTo teacher, with love
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. JAYAKUMARWhat impressed the audience during Trichy B. Siva Kumar's veena concert was the artiste's skilful addition ofgamakasto theswaras, which produced a euphonic and continuous flow of music. Siva Kumar achieved this effect by precisely pulling the strings in tandem with the pressing of the frets.A follower of thegayakitradition in veena, which produces music akin to a vocal rendition, he is the disciple of Chitraveena maestro Ravi Kiran.The main composition of the evening was a Dikshitar kriti, `Meenakshi memadam' in Poorvikalyani raga, set in Adi talam. He began with a delineation of the raga, bringing out its salient features.Slow tempoThis was followed by tanam, gently moving on to the kriti. Never brisk, he adheres to a style of playing in a slow tempo with a vibration that sustains a faint drone. This is what is unique about Siva Kumar's performance.In the `charanam,' it was only apt that he played niraval at `Madhurapuri nilaye.' This was carried on by the playing ofmanodharma swaras.Thaniavarthanam was provided by Nanchil Arul with soft strokes on the mridangam and by Trivandrum Kartikeyan on the ghatam.Earlier, Siva Kumar began his veena recital with an Ada tala varnam in Kanada raga. It was followed by `Sarasiruhasane' in Natta, set to Adi tala. The other items included `Mayame' in Ahari (Adi talam) and `Mamavasada' in Nattakurinji (Roopaka tala).The concert concluded with a few thukkadas, which included a Lalgudi tillana in Rajshri, and compositions in Behag, Kamas and Madhyamavati ragas.The programme was held to mark the seventieth birthday celebration of veena artiste and teacher Rugmini Gopalakrishnan. The concert, organised by a group of her disciples, was held at Teerthapada mandapam in Thiruvananthapuram.The District Collector N. Ayyapan presented the veteran artiste aponnada.  A CD of veena recitals of Rugmini Gopalakrishnan, comprising compositions of Muthiah Bhagavathar, was released at the function.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/28/stories/2006072800890300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.