(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSongs of a queen
p3
sVnews
p4
VGulshan Ara Syed whose wistful voice has brought laurels to the  music of the subcontinent came to Delhi recently much to the delight of her fans .She is adored and admired as much in Delhi as  Lahore, as much in Calcutta as  Dhaka. Better call her the champion of people-to-people contacts, although she likes to call them "heart-to-heart-contacts." She says she  never  felt  she  was in another country."It is only at the time of applying for visa or getting it stamped I feel I am going to another country."Born and bred in Bangladesh, Gulshan Ara Syed seemed programmed for fame. But the fame  did not come overnight. Besides constant riyaaz, she had to do much more to gain a foothold in the field then ruled by singers like Farida Khanum, Mehdi Hassan, Iqbal Bano and Ghulam Ali.She recalls her early days in 1980 when she moved to Pakistan from Bangladesh within a decade of the creation of Bangladesh."It was very difficult for a 20-year-old Bangla girl to make her place in singing in Pakistan."She got a break on Pakistan TV in 1980 and   never looked back.  Her appealing voice  brings to life the oldies of the 1940s and `50s. She shot to fame with ghazals like "Zindagi ki raahon mein", "Ghungroo toot gaye", "Dil laga ke kisi se".Then there is her all-time favourite, "Tumhare shehr ka mausam bara suhana lage". These were a few ghazals that become popular only after Gulshan Ara  lent her voice to the verses.However, unlike other singers in Pakistan whose canvass is either limited to ghazals or popular songs, she is a versatile artist. Her voice suits every form of music. Game to move with the times, she says,  "As remixes rule today's generation, I am going to do a `remix' of my old songs of the 1980s.""People often ask me who was your role model. This is all absurd.Main kisi ki tarah banna nahin chahti hoon.Mein chahti hoon ke jo bhi ho mera apna hi naam ho. (I don't want to be like anyone else. I want to make a name for myself on my own steam.)"Bollywood tooAs for a chance in  Bollywood, "This is what I am hoping to do."But she does not want to sing for Pakistani films since it is a small platform. "A lot of artistes from Pakistan made their way to Bollywood and succeeded. The Indian film industry is a big one and recognised around the world. Most of those who are successful artistes in Pakistan  became famous when Bollywood recognised them. Nobody knew Adnan Sami or Salma Agha in Pakistan."The well-travelled singer has through the years come up with 16 audio  albums of ghazals and songs. She could record ghazals and songs in 12 languages including French, Chinese, Persian and English besides  lending her magical voice to regional languages like Baluchi, Sindhi, Punjabi and Bengali. She has been conferred a number of honours including the Nigar Award in Pakistan and the title of Queen of Ghazals in India. Only the other day  she received Pakistan's Women Excellence Award.She hopes to start an institute to impart training in classical music in Pakistan, but lack of time has prevented her from developing the project so far.QUAMAR ASHRAFBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060201410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.