(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic as manna
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe India International Centre (IIC) takes pride in showcasing young talents of classical music and dance from across  the country, on a regular basis. This time the IIC presented the santoor recital of Shruti Adhikari, an artiste of extraordinary calibre, from Bhopal. Shruti was initiated into vocal music at an early age by her mother, a classical vocalist herself, and later learnt the intricacies of the sitar under the tutelage of her father. Shruti had a strong urge to learn something out of the ordinary, hence she chose to play the hundred-stringed instrument, the santoor. She received guidance from Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma and thus finally emerged as the first ever female santoor player of our country.Shruti chose  raga Puria Kalyan. A comely combination of the serene Puria and the romantic Kalyan, Puria Kalyan is one of the most challenging evening ragas. That Shruti  managed  unerringly, speaks  for her grooming along with her own sensitivity. The detailed alap-jod-jhala followed by a slow composition in Jhap tala, a medium tempo and a drut (fast) composition in Teen tala that led to the climax of jhala, showed not only her understanding and grip over the raga, but also her command over the technique and the rhythmic virtuosity. In addition, her ear for the right swara and its intonation was remarkable. Vinod Lele gave her attractive accompaniment on the tabla.Malhar, a festival to celebrate the spirit of the monsoon, has become an annual feature of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) calendar. This year the three-day festival held at Kamani auditorium offered a rich variety of music and dance. The classical vocal recital of Ustad Eltaf Hussain Sarhang from Afghanistan and the stimulating folk performance by Kohinoor Langa and Party from Rajasthan took the festival to its climax on the concluding day.Ustad Eltaf Hussain Sarhang who came all the way from Kabul to perform at the Malhar festival opened his vocal recital with raga Megh Malhar. His sonorous voice comfortably reached the mandra Shadja (Sa of the lower octave) during his elaborate alap preceding the slow khayal &#8220;Barasan ko aaye&#8221; set to Jhap tala, where he explored the raga at great length. It was followed by a composition of Sadarang in Teen tala where he depicted the thundering clouds and the heavy showers of monsoon through his powerful gamak and aakar taans. He sang a dadra in raga Pilu next, followed by a drut Ek tala composition &#8220;Meghawa umade&#8221; in the same raga. Next came a Sufi song  from Afghanistan that resembled our Maand. He went on to sing a ghazal of Allama Iqbal in raga Darbari that sounded exactly like &#8220;Mere hamnafas&#8221; immortalised by Begum Akhtar, which was followed by a  tarana set to Drut Ek tala.Subhash Nirwan on the tabla, Ghulam Sabir on the sarangi and Sajjad Hussain on the harmonium enjoyed themselves while accompanying the ustad,  who also had dholak and keyboard accompaniment. The percussion ensemble of Vikku Vinayakram on the second evening was electrifying. This was followed by Kumud Diwan&#8217;s light classical vocal recital, which had some well rendered thumris and dadras.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/08/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/08/22/stories/2008082250090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/08/22/images/2008082250090201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPATH BREAKINGShruti Adhikari, said to be the first woman santoor exponent.
p14
ss.