(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMadurai Mani magic recaptured
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANThey arrived well in advance to bag prime seats. Armed with their trusty raga identification guides and formidable song lists, the Sastri Hall regulars turned out in full force, ensuring a packed auditorium for the vocal concert of T.V.Sankaranarayanan, held under the auspices of Balaganamrutham.Vocal support was provided by the artiste's son, Shankaramahadevan and daughter, Amritha.Enthusiasm and bonhomie, a natural fall-out of the senior vocalist's exuberant performing style, prevailed.A hallmarkThe beauty of this style lies in its ability to instantly establish an easy rapport with the rasika, drawing him into a listening experience that educates even as it captivates &#151;  a hallmark of the Madurai Mani Iyer bani.The large audience turnout was therefore a tribute to the eminent vidwan they have always held dear, as well as a manifestation of the desire to recapture the magic of his music through Sankaranarayanan's abundant creative energy.The ebullient burst of kalpanaswaras in `Mahaganapathe' (Hamsadhwani) proclaimed the signature style of Madurai Mani Iyer, so wonderfully internalised by the artiste that he has made it indisputably his own. In the Kalyani raga, vibrant upper octave sancharas were coiled around the gandhara and punctuated by surprise twists and sensitive turns, the delineation summed up with vadi-samvadi phrases.A few definitive rounds of neraval enhanced the line `Syamakrishna sodari' in Syama Sastri's `Himadri sudhe,' while the nishada leitmotif in the concluding kalpanaswara and kuraippu added a note of interest. Economy of expression and smooth-as-silk jarus distinguished Abhogi, the artiste's personal vision chiselling anuswara-laden sancharas infused with a wealth of bhava. The kriti was Tyagaraja's `Manasunilpa,' always a launch pad for a fresh voyage of discovery.`Yaar umaippol' (Atana) afforded snug nooks to accommodate skilfully-wrought ravai sangathis, manoeuvred with expert precision. The main alapana in Khambodi was a happening exposition, with much of the action played out in the tara sthayi.Open-throated prayogas and gentle glides aglow with insight showcased a questing intellect at work. The descending phase was reinforced with  traditional pidis, the whole being a perfect prelude to Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Maragathavallim'.Nagai Sriram on the violin proved very quick on the uptake and impressed by his rich tone and spirited responses that combined elements of the vocalist's style with his own. Bangalore T.A.S. Mani (mridangam) and K.V.Gopalakrishnan (kanjira) handled the percussive segment with flair and assurance.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/03/stories/2006110301760600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/03/images/2006110301760601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINSTANT RAPPORT: T. V. Sankaranarayanan.
p14
ss.