(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMeticulously charted
p3
sVnews
p4
VBeing a Bahulapanchami concert at Sri Thyagaraja Seva Samiti, Aishwarya Vidya Raghunath conveyed her sincerity to do full justice to the saint's compositions. The kirtana patantara was well preserved, which made her interpretative effort wholesome.The exposition, in general, conformed to contemporary idiom to sustain interest. Her kutcheri panta was such as to keep it vitally alive &#8212; cryptic in form and substance.The alapana plan was meticulously charted with special emphasis placed on those segments that hold the essence of a raga's beauty and its characteristic shades. It was not a miscellany of spur-of-the-moment technique, but a synchronised harmony between manodharma and articulation.It was not just pleasantness, but the pursuit of depth that provided the motivation. Combined with rendering of kritis anchored in traditional format her accomplishment was impressive. She has a speed prone voice that now and then demands restraint.In her alapana of Sriranjani (&#8216;Bhuvini Dasudane') she could get at the points to dwell on to echo the salient facets of the raga.The pertinent sancharas followed smoothly in precise and disciplined direction. Quite conscious of what would add to excitement to the exposition Aishwarya introduced speedy bursts with consummate skill.Tradition boundThe other major raja she dealt with was Sankarabharanam. She summoned all her resources of training and practice to densely pack the development with frames of fluent sancharas. The top octave passages turned her potential into constructive statements of Sankarabharanam's singular charm. With chiselled range of phrasings Aishwarya wrapped up the raga in impressive dimension with self-assurance. The kirtana was &#8216;Swara Raga Sudharasa.' She rendered it with due respect to tradition and standard.The programme entirely comprised Sri Tyagaraja's songs and so there was no need to identify which one was outstanding.Besides the two songs mentioned earlier, the other items that deserved notice were &#8216;E Paapamu' (Atana) and &#8216;Karuna Elagante' (Varali). It must be said to her credit that she sang all the kirtanas in such a way as not to tarnish the image of Carnatic music as enshrined in Tyagaraja's compositions.Violin accompaniment was provided by Akkarai Swarnalatha. In her solo versions of the ragas she brought out the nuances of ragas well, but she has to learn the technique to make it lively. She presented a tame profile of her talent. K.S. Ramana on the mridangam was both relevant and responsive to Aiswarya's performance style.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/08/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/08/27/stories/2010082751060200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/08/27/images/2010082751060201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VWholesome effort: Aishwarya Vidya Raghunath.
p14
ss.