(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDasara concerts draw to a close
p3
sVnews
p4
VMaestros of instrumental music enthralled listeners during the recent Mysore Dasara Cultural Festival, 2005. This was evident from the good response at all the four venues. Performances were well planned by inviting both eminent and younger generation artistes.Mohanaveena, a blend of veena-sitar-and guitar, Pandit Vishwamohan Bhatt's creation, enthralled the listeners by the artiste's intrinsic creativity in alap-jod-jhala of raga Puriyadhanashri (both vilambit and drut). With his amazing innovative abilities he was able to blend Poorvi, Shree and Gauri to increase the impact of his rendition. Challenging rhythmical support by Pandit Sudin Mukherjee (from Kolkata) on tabla motivated Pandit Vishwamohan Bhatt to come out with exceptional creativity during the jugalbandi. "Jhoola Jhuvoo Lori Sunavo" (lullaby) depicting vatslaya bhava was an inspiring self-composition by the artiste. The unique characteristic of Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia's bansuri concert was its divine element. The jubilant performance of his artistic ability in amplification of the raga bhava and commendable control of breath supporting the clarity of melody from ati-mandara to shadja stayies were sprightly. Devout involvement and impressive creativity in delineating the sublime excellence of alap in raga Jog (composition on goddess Durga in matyataal), particularly on the lower octave was the hallmark of this longest music performance at the Palace complex that took the crowded listeners to nadaloka. Pandit Chaurasia concluded his concert with dhun in mishra pahadi at the request of the audience. Ravindra Yavagals's tabla elevated the concert to immortality.Praveen Godkindi's flute recital did suffer a bit due to the bad sound system, nevertheless there was lot to the music that made up for it, though in some parts it did turn complacent. Of course, there was tremendous support by accompanying artistes like Vidwan Ananthakrishna Sharma on pakhavaj and Udayraj Karpur on tabla.  He concluded the concert with a bhajan and bhavageethe in mishra pahadi.The impressive flute performance on the following day by Prof. C.A. Sreedhar featured with selected rare ragas of various compositions. "Brahamanda valaye" of Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar in Maand, navavarana composition in raga Narthaki, "Nagumomu" in raga Abheri, "Bhagyadalakshmi" in Madhyamavati and the concluding rare national anthem of the erstwhile Wadiyar dynasty "Kayou Sri Gowri" composed by Vidwan Basappa Shastry during the rule of King Chamaraja Wadiyar were rendered with crispness and agility.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/11/stories/2005111104390300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/11/images/2005111104390302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VENTHRALLING Hariprasad Chaurasia's bansuri concert was divine; (below) Vishwamohan Bhatt's rendition was marked by innovation
p14
ss.