(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe West in the East
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAPathik, a cultural organisation promoting art and culture and Lokayata Mulk Raj Anand Centre jointly presented `Destination India', an evening of instrumental harmony in fusion music featuring The Sky Band at New Delhi's India Habitat Centre this past week. Established in 2003 by a group of talented and energetic young musicians, the band comprises instruments like sitar, shehnai, classical and Spanish guitar, mridangam, kanjira, keyboard, etc. Their training in classical music comes in handy for their experimentation, which they call `fusion in classical music.'Sovon Hazra, the leader and founder of the group, is a disciple of Pandit Vishvanath Bose, Jayant Bose and Kumar Bose of the Benaras gharana, and in Delhi, he has learnt from Pandit Malviya at the Bharatiya Kala Kendra. He can play any kind of drum, including the African cajon, with effortless ease. On the sitar was Hindol Dev, a student of Gaurav Majumdar, himself a disciple of Pandit Ravi Shankar. On the guitar was Neelranjan Mukharji, a student of Pandit Debu Chaudhuri, on the shehnai was Sanjeev Shankar, the grandson and disciple of Pandit Anant Lal, on the keyboard was Manish Babu and on the mridangam and Kanjira was Kesavan.The evening started with `Naad-Brahm', a composition depicting the creation of the universe with the energy of pure vibration manifested in the Om mantra. It starts with a melodiousalaapin raga Bairaagi on the shehnai with the soothing drone of the tanpura in the background. The keyboard creates the atmosphere of dawn with the chirping of birds, et al. The tabla and mridangam follow with a four beat cycle, where Hazara marks every forth beat on various tablas tuned in different notes of the particular raga.Then the guitar joins in raga Megh, where the keyboard creates the effect of thundering clouds. It carries forward the initial alap by the shehnai to the jod sequence. Finally, the sitar joins in with the jhala in raga Bhupali, and the whole band creates vibrations of Om as if the transcendental energy were pervading the whole universe.Shades of western musicThe second item titled `In Search Of... ' was based on raga Keervani. The sitar and shehnai together start off the alap, and the guitar joins in with a bandish in Dadra, accompanied by Sovon on the daf and Kesavan on the kanjira. The solo pieces on the keyboard had shades of western music, adding the contemporary modern touch to the composition that turns to the eight beat cycle of Keherva in the faster tempo rendered jointly by all the artistes. The theme of this composition is woven around searching for what the mind cannot comprehend.To restore the balance between the body, mind and soul came `Tribindu', the power of three, with the ragas Hamsadhwani, Yaman and Kalavati. In Chintan, the thinking mind of human beings, Sovon played the cajon with Neelranjan's guitar, Kesavan played the mridangam with Sanjeev's shehnai, and the kanjira with Hindol's sitar in asawaal-jawaab jugalbandi.Manthan  -   an exploration, which was an effort of exultation through tala, started off with a crisp padhant of tabla bols by Sovon. It came out as a brilliant tala vadyaensemble. To spread the message of peace and harmony, the evening concluded with `Anandam', the joyous and soothing finale.The Sky Band, as the name suggests, appears to believe in the notion, `the sky is the limit.' They display genuine passion. Each and every member of the band has a grip oversurandlaya, but their enthusiasm needs a bit of mellowing down. As of now, it sounds more of a noise and less of music. Of course, whatever music was there, it was of high quality, and that alone proves their undoubted potential.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/01/stories/2005070101200200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/01/images/2005070101200201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFRIENDLY FUSION Sovon Hazra, founder of The Sky Band, has brought together a group of enthusiastic and well-trained instrumentalists.
p14
ss.