(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA mine of melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VNadhaswaramTiruvengadu Dr. Subramania PillaiSaregama - Carnatic Classical Rs. 145.The music of the nagaswaram is as auspicious to South India as is the music of the shehnai to the north. The nagaswaram was the bedrock that enabled carnatic music to reach listeners far and wide in the Southern parts of India. This instrumental music is a must in the daily rituals in temples, and on festive occasions when the deities (idols) were brought out of the sacred precincts to bless thousands of devotees.The power, the volume and resonance that emanated from the nagaswaram for hours together during the processions, created much awareness about South Indian music and its splendour.One of the great exponents of this demanding art was Tiruvengadu Subramania Pillai who with his  vidwat, fluent playing with total control of sruti and rich imagination, made an impressive mark in the challenging nagaswaram scenario of yester years. This CD comprises songs of Syama Sastri, Tyagaraja, Dikshitar and a few others.A Ragam Tanam Pallavi set to Adi talam in Shanmukhapriya is also included.Appeal to manyDespite Tyagaraja's "Ninnuvina" in Navarasakannada ungrammatical instrumental trappings, would appeal to many because of the inherent verve and vivacity.Kambhoji is described with accent on the raga bhava with a consistent flow of melody. The very positive feature in the raga delineation is that the artiste hardly loses his breath control, even during the sustained karvais. "Sri Subrahmanyaya Namasthe" of Dikshitar is a stately version, befitting the grandeur of the kriti. Shanmukhapriya, followed by very pleasing sketches of Hindolam, Mohanam and Saranga, is underlined with refined, traditional prayogas.Tyagaraja's "Neeka Daya Raka" pleading for the Lord's grace is a soulful composition in Neelambari and the soft, soothing rendering on the nagaswaram is a mine of melody. The magudi is a popular form in the nagaswaram repertoire and as in this album, invariably grips attention.Tyagaraja's "Paripalayam" in Ritigowla and "Sarasa Samadana" in Kapi Narayani are renderings brimming with spirit. "Adum Chidambaramo" in Sama and a light classical tune are the end pieces of this enjoyable album that synthesises tradition to a contemporary vogue. Incidentally, scholars say that the correct term for the instrument is nagaswaram and not nadaswaram.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/13/stories/2006101302470500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/13/images/2006101302470501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAn enjoyable album.
p14
ss.