(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBlend of melody and bhakti
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANMusic, when bhakti runs as the undercurrent, is considered as a path to salvation. When the element dominates in a recital, the concert assumes a different dimension.  Those who  heard Gayathri Venkataraghavan sing at the Mylapore Fine Arts Club for Mylapore Arts Academy would have understood the point.Gayathri's vocal abilities and perceptions have acquired greater wisdom these days. Her music is a blend of melody and devotion. It is not just for the cerebrum but also for the soul. Gayathri's total commitment to the divine idiom of the ragas and the abject surrender to the devotional component in the lyrics elevate the listener to  delightful heights.Gayathri's manodharma  and sincerity to explore the raga through its `sahithya bhava' made it  an extraordinary experience. Her Begada alapana (`Ganarasamudan' by Papanasam Sivan) and the emotion packed expression of Syama Sastri's `Devi brova samayam' in Chintamani and the expansive Bhairavi alapana and nerval for `Nee padamule gathiyeni nammidi' of Patnam Subramania Iyer were examples.Maintaining the momentumGayathri's raga essays were replete with reposeful extended phrases of bhava. The development, middle and the conclusion moved at a gentle pace at the same time keeping the momentum in tact. The delicate akaras and aesthetic brigas were used only as icing on the cake. But the results were amazing. While singers allow kalpanaswara to flood their music, Gayathri was discreet  using her acumen for correct diction and distribution. For zestful balance, Venkataraghavan included `Pahi shripate' in Hamsadhwani by Swati Tirunal, `Srilakshmi varaham' in Abhogi by Dikshitar and `Chalakallala' in Arabhi by Tyagaraja with spiralling swaras at `Elalo sarivara.'Akkarai Subalakshmi has faith in relating to the mood of the vocalist to make the concert a success. So her contributions to the quality of the programme turned out to be substantial because of her identical approach to Begada, Bhairavi and in the swara sallies. Neyveli Narayanan on the mridangam was slightly coercive and exuberant in the initial stages but became sober with the power of `Devi brova.' The beautifully framed soft beats of his mridangam and Purushotham's kanjira proved what thoughtful percussionists they are.Too shrillWith all the advanced technical expertise, one expects better acoustics for the music concerts held in sabhas. But occasionally one faces situation of a different kind.Dr. Vijayagopal's flute had the highest magnification for the thin audience at the MFAC for Mylapore Arts Academy. The audio parameters for instrumental music have to be delicately set as the character of each instrument differs distinctly from the other. If the magnification for a high pitched wind instrument like flute is on the higher side, as it was in this concert, the result could only be  shrills and echoing shrieks rather than soothing music. And so it proved to be.Vijayagopal's textbook reading type concert was further damaged by the audacious audio arrangement. The song selection went like this &#151;   Vasantha varnam, `Vinayaka ninnuvina' in Hamsadhwani, `Manasa etulo' in Malayamarutham with `Swara raga sudha' (Sankarabharanam) as the main piece.Vijayagopal prefaced Malayamarutham and Sankarabharanam with alapana. His focus and diacritic were more on speed than on being gentle. The neraval and swaras at `Moola dharaja nada' in Sankarabharanam were steered on the right track but landed ultimately on a pell-mell of rapidly heaped pile of notes as swaras. V.V.Ravi on the violin presented marginally better pictures of Malayamarutham and Sankarabharanam.The saving grace of the programme was the eloquent, pleasant, balanced and expert percussion by veterans Umayalpuram Sivaraman and E.M. Subramaniam on the mridanagam and ghatam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/10/stories/2006111002380500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/10/images/2006111002380502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVijaygopal.
p14
ss.