(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA continuous process
p3
sVnews
p4
VKRIPA SUBRAMANIAMMusic has evolved over the centuries taking into view the geopolitical, social and cultural milieu of the time. The Tamils also had a hoary past in music, starting from Silappadikaram and Pann, and the  Chera, Chola and Pandya kings were great patrons of music and dance.Thanjavur  was almost the seat of Carnatic music in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. The 19th  century was the golden age when the Trinity took centre sage by their monumental compositions abounding in musical lakshana, lakshya and manodharma.In the compositions of Dikshitar, Syama Sastri and Swati Tirunal, madhyama kala sahitya, swara sahitya and swaraksharas were incorporated creating specific embellishments, giving a new dimension to this art form.Royal composersThe kings of Maratha Vijayanagaram and Thanjavur were great patrons of art and some were royal composers and musicologists of repute. Dance, music and operas also saw a remarkable development.  Initially, music was part of religious study, learnt in the ashram, then shifting to the courts of royalty.The royal patronage brought it to the temples and later some  mutts also took to bhajans and sankirtanams. After the empires ceased, it was the turn of the zamindars to take up the patronage. In the households of some senior musicians concerts were held in the evenings. Veena Dhanammal's household was the venue for such concerts on Fridays. As India emerged independent,  the focus got shifted to the sabhas of Chennai and other major cities.During the early 20th  century, All India Radio played a dominant role in disseminating music to the public.  Theatre and cinema took to Carnatic music in their productions.In each period, music had something new to offer.The emergence of concert pattern came into being in the early 20th  century as a form of entertainment. Many concert artistes, descendants of  the  Trinity blossomed into fine artistes of high calibre with a rich manodharma.   This period also witnessed composers of great merit such as Tiger Varadachariar, Muthaiah Bhagavatar, Papanasam Sivan, Koteeswara Iyer and Mysore Maharaja.Today, Carnatic music is in a state of flux, trying to redefine itself to suit the times we live in.  The compulsions governing the art to grow are political, economic and social. Besides globalisation demands changes and modifications. Innovations become inevitable and new horizons are explored.Global statusCarnatic music has attained a global status. Violin L. Subamaniam and Ghatam Vikku Vinayakaram team up with their western counterparts and bring out fascinating albums.   Indians living abroad invite our musicians to perform there for nearly six  months in a year to satiate their longing for music and dance. Many youngsters residing abroad learn our music and also perform well.Technology has come a long way from the 78rpm records. It is all digital now. With the walkman, i-pods and the click of a mouse, music can be downloaded.Technology has influenced the learning process too. Music can now be learnt from tapes and internet. A disciple can reach his guru thousands of miles away over the phone and a home computer.There is an abundance of talent and sabhas are only too willing to provide them with a platform. Fair enough. But they should be careful in their choice taking care to project only mature talent. With the exception of prodigies, they would do well to let teenagers learn and blossom.New instruments are heard and new genres born.  It was 300  years ago that the violin, a western instrument, got adapted into the Indian system through Baluswamy Dikshitar. Now we have the mandolin, guitar,  saxophone and the keyboard offering Carnatic music. We find fusions, jugalbandis, laya presentations, veena venu and violin combo and in some cases with the sonorous tavil as accompaniment are featured as experiments.Thematic concerts, lec-dems, workshops on teaching and appreciating Carnatic music and raga lakshanas are featured for the benefit of rasikas. One is reminded of the  words of the legendary Veena Dhanammal: "Ippallam pattanathile sangeetham pesarangalame!" Lecture demonstrations are highly popular with the public which wants to learn something new all the time. And kudos to the sabhas for trying to offer something different from the beaten path.A heartening trend is young people are prepared to take up Carantic music seriously as profession. The iconic status that it has acquired, the glamour that goes with it could be the reasons.But how many of them are literally putting their heart and soul into it? For music is all about bhava. The emotional content of a song is as important as its melody.    Soulful music comes with maturity and diligent practice.From the musical history, we find that there is a remarkable continuity in the development of music, and this link of tradition should be adhered to, by the youngsters. Time alone would judge our contribution to this divine art form.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/15/stories/2006121502701000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.