(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRecital rich in values
p3
sVnews
p4
VGOWRI RAMANARAYANThe most impressive aspect of Swarnarethas's singing at the Kartik Fine Arts Festival was that he reminded you of guru Sanjay Subramaniam without being a carbon copy. His sudden briga flashes, and certain unexpected alapana phrases were pleasing tributes to the guru.An early `Kanjadalayadakshi' (Kamalamanohari) was brisk enough to ban any inclination to nap in the noon audience. The voice rose confidently through notes high and low. The swaras with some porutham effects never lost sight of melody. Mukhari (with `Entanine' to follow) showed the singer's grasp of raga. `Ganamudapanam' (Jyotiswarupini) established the colours of contrast between two suddha madhyama ragas, as the following Sankarabharanam was shaped as the main feature of the recital.Swarnarethas maintained the dignity demanded by his full-bodied ``Swararagasudha" in neraval and kalpanaswaram. Both were untouched by unnecessary flourishes. His vision of the raga had more sweep than depth.The link phrases did not fade in and out naturally. The brigas and gamakas lacked clarity and precision. Strong and pleasing in timbre as it is, the voice could not always translate flawlessly what was imagined by the mind. Manikudi Chandrasekharan made energetic contributions on the mridangam. S.Raghuraman's violin did not rise above routine support.Grand patternShe was confidence personified. But Vidya Kalyanaraman had many things going for her  -   a good training, sound patanthara and natural talent. A slight huskiness in the voice prevented girlish shrillness. Swaminatha (Nattai), the first kriti, seemed an adjunct to an unstoppable flood of swaras. But she also showed how a ``Nannu vidachi" (Ritigowlai) could be bhava dominant.Khambodi was mounted on strong karvais and followed a grand pattern, though not every phrase was carefully chosen, or seamless in joining the flow. But there was feeling, evident also in kriti rendition, when Vidya began ``Tiruvadi charanam" with its imploring anupallavi, ``Marupadiyum." The neraval (``Aduthuvanda ennai") was disciplined, while the swaras fast and slow stood out for accenting melodic possibilities in tune with the spirit of the song.With nothing maudlin about it, the slow swara modulation testified to the young singer's musical values. In this as through the concert, Vidya was well supported by the violin (Rajeev) and mridangam (Srivanchiam Sriram), both youngsters worth watching. The threesome enjoyed themselves, thus adding to listeners' relish of the recital.More evenness in voice production, swarasthana accuracy, and honing of every phrase and note, would have heightened the over all impact. However, the recital testified to Vidya's having opted for classicism, as tough as it is demanding. This was evident even in the Desh tailpiece (Vitthala) which did not abandon Carnatic shores for the Hindustani. Tender touches on the violin here heightened the mood. The tani was shaped as an integral part of the concert.Ragas well-contrastedA solid training and pleasing timbre were evident at S.M.Vilasini's recital. However, the faster and higher sancharas in her Kalyani alapana were strained. Robust phrases ended on weak notes. The violin's (G.Venkatasubramaniam) circus effects were of no help here. The neraval appended to ``Amma Ravamma" gave respect to the raga, as did the kalpanaswara, despite the manoeuvred arudi ``Muruga Muruga" and ``Arul seyya vendumayya" built good bridges between the well-contrasted ragas (Kalyani, Todi) for alapana. They had their own variety, as the Saveri song  -   its tempo pitched just right  -   was infused with feeling. Rasikapriya evoked vivadi verve.Vilasini's Tamil isai continued with ``Karikeya." The Todi preface lacked organic development, again due to the voice being uneasy in the higher as well as the few mandara prayogas. It had fine patches testifying to musical maturity. Kalpanaswaras proved exceedingly pleasant. The violin made useful contributions in Todi. The tani was a crisp affair.In tailpieces, Vilasini essayed lighter moods &#151;  Ranjani (viruttham and song on gurus Gnanananda and Haridoss Giri), and Behag (Muruganin marupeyar). Nellai Balaji showed as much care through the recital as he did in a brief, crisp tani.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802900700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802900703.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VS.M.Vilasini .
p14
ss.