(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNotes of class
p3
sVnews
p4
VAs a six-year-old Mehmood Mirza received sitar lessons from his celebrated maternal uncle, the late Ustad Haider Hussain Khan, a doyen of the Jaipur Senias. This critic had the good fortune of listening to the late maestro on many occasions in Calcut\u000ata where he had performed. Ustad Mirza&#8217;s recital at the Kamani auditorium in New Delhi would be long remembered for his sedate renderings in ragas Poorvi and Jaijaiwanti. The raga Poorvi was the most liked melody of Khwaja Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia at whose abode this raga would be sung and played before the evening prayers would commence.During a summer there was a financial crisis at the Khwaja&#8217;s camp and its official merchant declined to supply the articles of daily need till the arrears were cleared or something dear and of much value to the Khwaja was mortgaged to the merchant.The Khwaja decided to pawn his most dear melody of Poorvi raga which was neither sung nor played until the debts to the merchant were cleared.One was delighted with Mirza&#8217;s charmingly rendered Poorvi raga which released an aura of sobriety. His overall handling of the raga impressed for his scholarly approach in establishing its basic character earlier with an at-length renderings in the &#8216;alap-jod&#8217; sequences with well deployed sequences in the meend-soot-gamak sequences followed with a liltingly rendered composition set a sixteen beat mid-tempo Teen taal time-cycle.Mirza concluded with a colourful delineation in the late evening melody of raga Jaijaiwanti which he opened with a slow tempo Masitkhani composition in the sixteen beat time cycle of Teen taal. He rendered the earlier part of this piece with a methodically inserted alap-jod renderings. His numerous variations were well connected to the mukhdas or the opening phrase of the main composition or the sthayee. The drut or the fast Teen tal (Razakhani) composition was a befitting finale to the delightful recital by Ustad Mehmood Mirza. One must give full marks to the young and learned percussionist of Delhi, Pandit Subhas Nirwan who provided the tabla accompaniment with much understanding and artistic skill.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/13/stories/2009031350540200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.