(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA light music treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VSharada Ashoka Vardhan  a senior officer of the Information & Public Relations Department on deputation  to AIR  is a talented writer, extending her activity into lyrical  writing  besides being a short story writer, novelist and playwright  on women's issues.  She won the Telugu University's literary award for drama writing. All India Radio  had broadcast a number of her songs, mostly tuned by veteran composer Palagummi Viswanatham.  She decided to put some selected  songs into a CD album in deference to the wishes of her late husband  Ashoka Vardhan, who also hailed from a family of literary figures and freedom fighters Though  he did not live to see it, Sharada had  brought out the  CD with a sentimental touch aided by the quality music composed by  Viswanatham.  Among  the hundreds of songs she had rendered,ManasayeraMadhava that she penned during her youth became an all-time hit on AIR channels with the listeners It  was tuned by  Viswanatham, who was music producer of AIR Hyderabad, at that time. He had set it  inMohana ragamand the lyrical content  is quite attractive because it views  Lord Krishna from different angles especially from the viewpoint of his consort Satyabhama and devotee Radha. This song was the choice of noted AIR singer Vijayalakshhmi Sarma to get into radio through audition. She passed it and then rendered the same song in her first-ever broadcast  over radio and later went on to become a playback singer in films too. In fact, she earned the sobriquet&#151;`Manasayera Madhava'Vijayalakshmi. Therefore, this CD gained thatpallavias its title. There are, in all, nine  songs includingManasayera Madhava,rendered by  Vijalakshmi,  one of the major attractions of the CD. One notable aspect is that Palagummi set each of the songs in different ragas.Eereyi ilaage nilichiponireflects a different angle of Madhura Bhakti Set inDwijavantito keep to the mood of the theme, with the maiden's craving for the Lord's company, it is rendered by Surekha Murty. A mellifluous singer, she also rendersEvariki Teliyadulu.  set inBilahari. This also reflectsMadhura Bhakti.Mohanakrishna is not only a renowned classical vocalist but  also a good singer of light classical    songs. His rendition ofRama ninne korinaanu, a song that is different from the general thematic concept of the CD. The song just describes the qualities of Lord Rama. Nitya Santhoshini, a young, dynamic and up-and-coming  playback singer of Telugu cinema, has a major presence in the CD, by rendering three songs of different appeal but all on theMadhura Bhaktitheme.Manasulona vunnadee, Pilichina palukavadelaand a lullabyJolapadi jokottedi..Pilichinais a song with naughty expression, like "are you afraid of coming nearer to me, that I may tie you to one end of my sari".Kalyanavasanthamprovides correct mood to this song.Manasulona Vinnadeeis rendered inKalyani.Manasu dochinna komaliwent for a talented male voice, Vinodbabu who is also there in the orchestral part playing the keyboard . This was set inKanada. It is more a love song. Another highlight of the CD isYenta sogasugadewritten in a new folk trend. AndMisr Khamassuits it well. The heroine compares her Lord to the moon. Haimavati, another popular singer  who teaches light music at  Telugu University renders this song emotively. Besides Vinod Babu, others in the orchestra are Dattatreyulu (flute), Meduri Srinivas (veena), Sivasankar and Pawan Kumar on tabla. .  Perhaps, the songs could have been calledgeyaluand notkrutulu.For copies of the CDs, contact Sharada Ashoka Vardhan on 27803666..G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/06/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/06/17/stories/2005061701520300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/06/17/images/2005061701520301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSICAL MELODY Sharada Ashoka Vardhan and Palagummi Viswanatham team up for a CD.
p14
ss.