(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelody is his forte
p3
sVnews
p4
VM.L. NARASIMHAMCompared to yesteryear singers, the present crop has one problem. Heavy competition. Not just from singers who are conversant in their mother tongue  but also from singers from other regional languages, thanks to a voice boom brought in by A.R. Rahman that transcends boundaries and diction.Amidst this,  a couple of Telugu-speaking singers are working hard to find a firm footing in movie music. Muralidhar is  one such singer,  who has juggled his way from singing jingles to singing for films.  His foot tapping numberBunny... Bunny(from the filmBunny) composed by Devi Sri Prasad has sent his  fans into a frenzy.  The singer's recent repertoire includes Bapu'sRadha Gopalam,Oka Oorilo, Hungamaand the dubbed filmManmadha.A favourite with Pawan Kalyan, Murali first sang for him inKhushiand the song, a remix of A.M. Raja's classic rendition,Adavari matalaku ardhale verule, won him much appreciation. "I am indebted to Pawan Kalyan and music director Manisharma for retaining my voice for the song," says Murali. And his renderings for the maverick actor inGudumba Shankar&#151;Killi KilliandLokaale Gelavaali, a duet (with Chitra) from the film,Baluwere chartbusters too. Much before that, he had sung for the actor inGokulamlo Seetha.Murali started his career as an assistant to the legendary music director Saluri Rajeswara Rao. "After completing my graduation from the Sri Venkateswara Music and Dance College in Tirupati, I went to Chennai and joined the maestro as his assistant. Perhaps, I was the last assistant to this legendary composer. Later, I worked with his sons, Vasu Rao whom I regard as my guru, and his brother Koti. It was Vasu Rao who gave me my first assignment as a singer withMama Alludu," recalls Murali.Now, he also collaborates with Koti for stage shows. Vasu Rao, his mentor, says that a common friend and musician, Wilson, brought Murali to him. "After listening to him, I found it distinctly different. I gave him tips about the changing trends in movie singing and taught him mike balancing. I made him sing for my films and gave him the audiotapes of his voice after echo reverberation and equalisation so that he could try his luck with other music directors too. He has a  perfect knowledge oflayaandswara."Murali's first stint with stage singing came  from G. Anand's Swaramadhuri troupe. "It was a rewarding experience," says Murali. "Even without those stage shows he could have gone places as he can render a song in any scale. Long ago, he sang a comedy number for Suthi Velu in Jandhyala'sLadies Special. Now that his time has come,  I am sure Murali will find his rightful place in Telugu film music," feels Anand.With over 300 film songs in his kitty (including  dubbed films), Murali had extended his singing career to Tamil with Vijayakanth'sNarasimha. "Manisharma has asked me to sing the song. I thought it is for track recording and another singer will be called for the final take. But Vijayakanth, the film's hero, liked it so much he asked it to be retained," smiles Murali. He had also sung for a Kannada film besides singing about 600 devotional songs for private albums mostly for composer Purushotham Sai.His happiest moment came when he rendered the title song for the dubbed Prabhu Deva-starrer,Saththi,  The reason...  he has rendered it with his daughter Haripriya, a first standard student, and it is her debut too.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/29/stories/2005072902040300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/29/images/2005072902040301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSinging in style: Muralidhar
p14
ss.