(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt's in her genes
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C IYENGARThe inaugural performance of the New Year sponsored by Kalasagaram last week was a  vocal concert by Sudha Raghuraman of Delhi. Hailing from a family of musicians like O.S.Thiagarajan and O.S.Arun, she has the genes to effortlessly pick up the art and grow with it. She was accompanied on the violin by Dinakar and on the mridangam by Arvind. Sudha showed  amazing confidence backed by good experience. Although she is still young,  the overall capsule was convincing and pleasing. In her music, the beautiful and the good are closely bound together. Although the overall performance was not far  from routine, there was  some originality , some strength without brutality and a dramatic portrayal of impulse, emotion and mood without disfigurement by any strained intensity. In hermanodharma sangitha, say, thealapana, she has a sharp sense of  speed like any other contemporary singer. This impulse not only spawns impiety but also destroys traditional mould.The selection of the items was judicious. Deleting the conventionalvarnam, she started withvaranamukhavainhamsadwanisprinkled with a short spell ofswarakalpana. Thepancharathnainnaataiwas a decorative item too familiar with the audience.Shobillu SapthaswrainJaganmohiniwas attractive. The itemSamaganalolainSuratiwas a prize show withbhavaand idealkalapramanam.Theragalathangiwas a breezy display and the krithi, aparadhamula carried the usual effervescence. It was againAnanda NatanmaadinarinKedaramwhich proved imposing. The ingenuity of M.D Ramanatham in popularising this item comes to mind. In terms of the different sections like thekrithi,neravalandswarakalpana, the item inthodi,karunachoodavamma, stood desperately demanding. Although holistically pleasing, the concert needed some attractive and imaginative fillings.The highlight of the concert was the excellent accompaniment on mridangam by Arvind. Arvind is one of the most promising percussion experts in the twin cities. The way he takes the audience to appreciate the subtlest and the soft, as well as the heightened and innovative complication in rhythmic calculations is his  unique skill. It is not playing  thethalaalone but the choicestkoruvaishe chooses for thekrithithat is even more attractive. Dinakar, the popular violinist has the  personality and  skill that attracts respect.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601370300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.