(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStriking high notes of haunting delight
p3
sVnews
p4
VA. RAMALINGA SASTRYA sarod recital for one hour by young Abir Hussain followed by a superb concert by vocal maestro Pandit Arun Badhuri from Kolkata marked the inaugural of the recently constituted Visakha Sangeet Academy in Kalabharathi last Saturday.A scholar of ITC Sangeet Research Academy (Kolkata), Abir played a composition inraag Jhanjhutiin the three tempos inEkandTeentalwith embellishments ofaalap, jhalandsargam. Pandit Samara Sinha, also from Kolkata, with his sparkling and dexterous handling of the instrument, astutely actuated convivialbholesand seemed to be leading Abir to go highly promising and thus contributed grandeur.Derivation of a sublime blend of expression of `naada', `laya' and `sahityabhavas', astute accentuation of vibrant melody with sobriety exploiting the inherent power of resonant sonority and range in the voice to the hilt and discerning exposition ofsastramarked the vocal recital next. Eruditely and sensitively accompanied by the wizardly tabla player Samara Sinha, Arun struck high notes of haunting delight from the word go starting with achota khayal(Bhagsri), then rendering bhajans inDeshandBhairavtill he concluded singing Bengali Lok Geet including compositions of the renowned lyricist Gnanaprakash Ghosh. Founder members of the Academy Meeta Sarkar and Mohuva Nandi while provided the drone on the tambura, S.N. Sinha knowledgeably compeered the programme and Suresh Nandi proposed a vote of thanks.The previous evening, Kalabharathi witnessed a grand nagaswaram recital by G. Narayana along with his wife Anjali on clarinet, Vadali Narasimhulu and M. Mallikarjuna Rao on dolu.Tuneful rendering in perfect unison with the drone on the tambura and beat on the dolu marked the recital. The highlight was the expansive expatiation of theKharaharapriya kriti, Prakkalanilabadiand the vibrantthanithat followed on dolu.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032300320200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032300320201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN CONTROL Pandit Arun Bhaduri along with Pandit Samara Sinha on tabla on stage.
p14
ss.