(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA show of promise
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARKalasagaram's programme, held last week, put the spotlight on the gifted talent of a 14-year-old budding violinist. Master Vinay Rahul played the violin for over two hours and gave glimpses of his mastery over the instrument. Being trained by maestro Akella Mallikarjuna Sharma, Rahul showed his perfection ofsrutiandswara gnana.Given his skill and the training, he is bound to become a promising violinist sooner than later. However, it would be unfair to have expected more from him on the occasion. He played thekrithisto perfection, showing that the rehearsals he has done over a period of time were just right. Although thesangathiswere common, they were precise and in unison with the rhythm. TheAta thala varnaminkalyaniwas played in two speeds without any blemish. So was the followingKrithi vathaIinhamsadwani.IfShobillu sapthaswarainjaganmohiniwas impressive, thekrithiofSwathi Thirunalinthodiwas inspiring. The popular songRa ra rajivalochanain the ragamohanawas well worth the selection. The concert consisted predominantly ofanthara gandharalikeKalyani, HamsdwaniandMohana. Care ought to have been taken to include contrasting ragas.Rahul's prowess in the field ofmanodharma sangithanaturally needs training and improvement. This is gained over a period of time and relentless practice. Take for instance hisswaraplaying. He has already got into a dire stance of playingkoruvis(premeditated phrases), both long and short, which can be learned by any person of modicum skill. This is notmanodharma sangithaand is an unwelcome malpractice, unless it is sparsely sued as a decorative feature. What is more risky is that when one gets into this rut, it is difficult to get out of it! Even so is the case with the facet ofalapana.It is advisable to listen to the music of the masters but have original creativity. Early bloom should not be allowed to fade early. Mallepudi Venkata Raja on the mridangam and B.V.S Prasad on the ghatam were not of professional standards although they tried to do their best. All in all, it is better the well-wishers wait some more time before they put Rahul on the stage.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/03/stories/2006030301680300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.