(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt's melody all the way
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIIt was an assembly of child prodigies. N. Ravikiran at the centre with his chitravina, Akkarai Subbulakshmi with the violin, Master Satyanarayana with the keyboard, Umayalpuram Sivaraman with the mridangam and Sri Sundar Kumar with the kanjira filled the stage at Jaivabai Higher Secondary School, Tirupur, raising expectation. The occasion was `Isai Amudham - 2006,' organised by Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha.The programme started with `Evari Bodhana,' a varnam in Abhogi by Pattanam Subramania Iyer in vilamba kala and picked up tremendous speed soon."Gajananayutham Ganeshwaram'' by Dikshitar in Vegavahini followed majestically. During the alapana, neraval and swaraprastharas, Ravikiran encouraged Master Satyanarayana to contribute effectively.Aural and rhythmicWhile the audience was  overwhelmed by the way Master Satyanarayana produced complicated phrases following Ravikiran, the little master himself went about his business nonchalantly, without a trace of self consciousness. Umayalpuram Sivaraman's mridangam was an aural extravaganza in rhythm. The mridangist, with 60  years of experience, could clearly bring out the swaras in his mridangam and even  untrained ears could identify them."Raghuvamsa Sudhambudhi Chandra'' in Kadhana Kuthoohalam sparkled with speed, variety and spontaneity. Then came the special composition based on the technique, "Melharmony." This innovative method brings together the `melody' of the east with the `harmony' of the west. Ravikiran presented a piece in Keeravani, set to `tisra gathi.'It was meant to be played by  100  artistes, but Ravikiran's troupe could bring out a near-perfect effect with the help of the keyboard that produced the sounds of the trumpet, the saxophone, the piano, the bassoon and the flute."Brochevarevarura'' in Khamas by Mysore Vasudevachar was enchanting, followed by the unforgettable performance  of Umayalpuram Sivaraman. Sri Sundar Kumar's kanjira was equally lively. Akkarai Subbulakshmi's violin was melody incarnate and she followed Ravikiran with ease in pure classical, semi-classical and western compositions.Towards the end, Ravikiran played a philosophic song, "Vidhiyin Vindhai Arindhavar Yaaro'' and concluded with the galloping Thiruppugazh, "Muthai Tharu Pathi Thirunagai."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/27/stories/2006012700570300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/27/images/2006012700570301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPLEASING AND PERFECT: N. Ravikiran .  Photo: M. Balaji.
p14
ss.