(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA festive week
p3
sVnews
p4
VVisakha Music and Dance Academy conducted its seven-day National Eminence Award and Annual Functions at the Kalabharathi auditorium. This year, Padma Vibhushan Umayalapuram K. Sivaraman (Chennai) has been chosen for the award that carries the title of Nada Vidyabharathi. While chief guest K. Sadguru Sivananda Murty presented new clothes, shawl and garlanded Sivaraman, Union Minister of State for HRD D. Purandeswari read out the citation and presented it.VMDA president C.S.N. Raju too garlanded the awardee and along with shawl presented cash award of Rs. one lakh. Former President of India Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam conferred VMDA's title Nada Vidyabharathi on Sivaraman and finally presented the Swarnakamalam.After the function was over, Sivaraman played solo on mridangam with the beat on an electronic timer first, this was followed by a solo performance and finally he performed with vocalist S. Bala Sundar who was also supported on ghatam by E.M. Subramaniyan and drums by Muralikrishna. Second day evening, Padma Bhushan T.V. Sankarnarayanan sang in the company of Mahadevan Sankarnarayan (vocal), V.V. Ravi (violin), Neyaveli Skanda Subramanian (mridangam) and Alathur Rajaganesh (kanjira). Sankarnarayanan from the word go, starting with the varnam, till he rendered &#8216;mangalam', kept all engrossed.The highlights were Edutanilachi (Thyagaraja), Sankarabharanam (expansive expatiation) and Ragam, Tanam and Pallavi in Shanmukhapriya (Pallavi on Gandhiji). All accompanying artistes both while following the main artiste and playing their turns exhibited extraordinary merit.Next day featured a vocal recital by AIR top-grade artiste K. Saraswathi Vidyardhi. She was accompanied on violin by Komanduri V. Krishna (S.V. Music College lecturer), AIR staffer V.V. Ramana Murty on mridangam and S. Hanumantha Rao (ghatam, Tadepalligudem).She began with Sarasuda (Saveri &#8211; varnam in the two tempos and swaram and rendering a few items like Brovabharama (Bahudari &#8212; swaram in two tempos and Maayamma (Ahiri) with elaborate and detailed alapana.She further elaborately rendered alapana (Hameerkalyani). She concluded her concert with a composition of Annamayya (Kapi), Surikumaraswamy's Yeminallanayya (Javali) Ahirbhairav, Lakshmivallabha (Misramohini), Tukaram's Abhang and Thillana in Jhunjhuti.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/08/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/08/20/stories/2010082050340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/08/20/images/2010082050340201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMemorable moments A.P.J. Abdul Kalam honouring Umalayapuram K. Sivaraman.
p14
ss.