(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStrange meeting of cultures
p3
sVnews
p4
VAt 2.30 in the morning hundreds of villagers dressed in dhotis and turbans are gathered in a hall. The crowd is spilling  outside  too. They are all listening to Raga Hemant being sung by an unassuming Khayal vocalist from Dharwad, and erupt into app\u000alause every now and then. They have just heard Jog Kauns sung by another vocalist from Chennai and before that Nayaki Kanada and Jhinjhoti &#8230;The music has been going on for several hours now and will continue for several more, with  one musician following another. All are paying  homage to a remarkable personality, Panchakshari Gavai.Gadag, a small town in Karnataka, comes alive in the month of June to celebrate the samadhi punyathithi of Panchakshari Gavai. The five-day music festival draws hundreds from nearby villages and towns. . How many  have any idea of ragas and talas? Yet they stay awake all night to drink in all the music.To be realistic, it is not just the music, but the spiritual aura of the place and the religious standing of Panchakshari Gavai and his successor, Puttaraj Gavai, which draws the villagers. They command devotion and a following that is astonishing. Outwardly it appears like any other fair conducted at  religious places.   But this is a tiruvizha with a difference, a strange and unlikely one &#8211; for, classical music lies at the heart of the Gadag festival. It is an exciting meeting of high culture and  folk.  This year&#8217;s festival ( June 20 to 24 ) drew musicians from the nearby, musically rich, Dharwad region as well as from places such as  Bangalore, Chennai and Bhopal.Well known musicians such as Somanath Mardur and Venkatesh Kumar too paid homage with their performances. Many of them have been students of the Veereshwar Punyashram which is the epicentre of the festival. It  is an institute founded by Panchakshari Gavai for the dissemination of Hindustani classical music, especially among  visually challenged children.  Today it is  headed by Pandit Puttaraj Gavai.Panchakshari Gavai was a sanyasi who first learnt Carnatic music and later trained in the Hindustani style under the legendary Neelkanth Buwa Meerajkar. Being visually challenged,  he took upon himself the mission to teach Khayal music to as many young boys as he could. By this, he aimed to offer them a means of survival.  Story has it that he would camp in villages, draw young children and impart music to them.  Affluent and culturally inclined patrons came forward to take care of the needs of the Swami and his students. Finally, with land made available by a charitable friend, the Swami established the Veereshwar Punyashram in Gadag.Ever since, the school has been growing in strength. The Rotary Club of America donated  a  three-storeyed building, where the students   receive free boarding, lodging, and education. Of course, the primary focus of the education is  Hindustani classical music.Panchakshari Gavai and Puttaraj Gavai have touched the lives of many. Even in Chennai, many who have made a living out of music owe it to them. Students of theirs are scattered all over the country and even though very few (notably Pt. Basavaraj Rajguru) have made it big in classical music, their  devotion is incredible.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/07/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/07/25/stories/2008072551440600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/07/25/images/2008072551440602.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VThe recital of Veereshwar Madri.
p14
ss.