(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical offering to the Divine
p3
sVnews
p4
VTo revive the age-old connection between the temple and our classical arts, and to inculcate interest in Indian classical music, Sangitika, in collaboration with the Shri Rangnath Venugopal Temple Trust, organised the 3rd Temple Festival of Indian Cl\u000aassical Music at Shri Rangnath Venugopal Temple, Pushkar, this past week. The first temple of the Ramanuj Vaishnava sect in Rajasthan, this heritage monument is an amalgamation of South Indian temple architecture, Rajput architecture and the remarkable fresco tradition of Shekhavati. The temple is popularly known as &#8216;Purana (old) Rangji Mandir&#8217;.The inaugural concert of the three-day festival had Rajendra Prasanna playing themangal vadyashehnai. Opening his recital with raga Maru Bihag, Prasanna hooked the listeners with just the initial statement of the raga &#8216;Re Ni Sa&#8230;&#8217;ending on a prolonged tuneful perch on Shadja. Preceded with a brief alap, the slow composition set to vilambit Ek tala treated the raga in gayaki ang like a bada khayal, with gradual alap badhat. The melodious meend and kana adorned the swaras that were deployed in geometrical designs before progressing to fast taans. The faster composition was set to Teen tala that ultimately culminated in tantrakari ang with the crescendo of jhala.Hori, set to Chaancher theka, came next. Mainly based on Pilu raga, it had shades of Kafi and Sindura also. He went on playing from Pahadi Dhun to Chaiti, Ghoomar and Kajari, before concluding his recital with Bhairavi. He had superb support on the dukkad by Mangal Prasad of Banaras.The festival showcased young talents in duets the next day, when  Rajesh and Rishabh Prasanna played flute and Rajnish and Ritesh Mishra gave a vocal recital. The first duo chose Raga Yaman and played it well. The slow composition set to Rupak tala was followed by a couple of compositions set to medium and fast Teen tala. The musical coordination between the two brothers was perfect, but Rajesh needs to work on his swaras to match the tunefulness of Rishabh. The young Mishra Bandhu, Ritesh and Rajnish, rendered raga Bageshri with much aplomb and understanding. They sang two compositions in slow and medium Teen tala and an impressive tarana and concluded their concert with a Meera bhajan based on raga Tilak Shyam. They had excellent support on the harmonium by Vinay Mishra and on the tabla by Shubh Maharaj, the grandson of Pandit Kishan Maharaj.The concluding evening opened with a vocal recital by Suman Yadav, a disciple of Leelavati Adsule of the Gwalior gharana. Opening her recital with the evening raga Puria Dhanashri, she also sang raga Chandrakauns. Endowed with a melodious voice with a wide range, Suman rendered her khayals with great sensitivity. She rendered a bhajan in Dadra style, based on raga Bhinna-Shadja, before concluding her recital with a Hori in Pilu.The festival concluded with a melodious sitar recital by Krishna Mohan Bhatt. Creating the mood for Shyam Kalyan with a detailed alap-jod, surprisingly, he switched over to Yaman &#8212; exploring its different aspects with a number of lovely compositions. His traditional Hori in raga Kafi and Chaancher theka and the Bindadin Maharaj Hori composition created the romantic fervour of the festival of colours. He concluded his recital with a mesmerising Mand. Prithviraj Mishra gave him brilliant tabla accompaniment.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/20/stories/2009032050590200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/03/20/images/2009032050590201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPower of Two Rajneesh Mishra (left) and Ritesh Mishra.
p14
ss.