(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhen rare gems filled the air
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIHer absolute lack of self-consciousness, good-humoured friendliness towards the accompanists and the `You are all mine' attitude towards the audience have helped the charismatic Aruna Sairam earn the pedestal on which her rasikas have seated her. She was singing for Rajalakshmi Fine Arts' September Season 2006 on the theme, `Hariyum Haranum' at Nani Palkhiwala Auditorium, Coimbatore. One got to hear unusual gems like `Aalavathennalo Sivane' (Paras) by Oothukadu Venkatasubbaiyar that listed out the 63  nayanmars and the `Dasaragamalika kriti' by Dikshitar on the 10  incarnations of Vishnu.With mood-setting slokas in Tamil and Sanskrit preceding most of the songs, Aruna rendered `Haridasulu Vedale' and other songs for Hari and Hara.  If her raga delineations and swara prastharas thrilled the connoisseurs, her simple songs delighted all.Towards the end, as the favourites rolled on, each song turned into a veritable powerhouse of energy. The accompanists H. N. Bhaskar (violin), J. Vaidhyanathan (mridangam) and S. Karthick (ghatam) joined to regale the audience with their technical brilliance and joyful innovative spirit.Fulfilling concertNithyashree Mahadevan sang on the theme `Shambho Mahadeva' the next evening. Hers was another fulfilling concert, very well attended and highly appreciated. With her rich voice,  hard work and sensible selection of kritis, she makes sure there is something to talk about and marvel in each of her concerts.Khambodi received elaborate treatment  for `Aadum Deivam Nee Arulvaay' by Papanasam Sivan. Her concert comprised the thematic song, `Shambho Mahadeva' in Bowli and many other kritis.  The after `tani' session was scrumptious with a  list of emotionally appealing viruthams and songs that included compositions by Mangalam Ganapathy and Lalitha Sivakumar.With excellent accompanists like M.A. Krishnaswamy on the violin, Neyveli Skanda Subramaniam on the mridangam and Kovai G. Suresh on the ghatam, she made the listeners sit glued to their seats.The music that poured from P. Unnikrishnan's pleasant, well-trained voice was an aural treat to the discerning rasikas. His alapana of Charukesi and Anandabhairavi were splendid to say the least.He successfully presented the tricky but challenging grahabedham (having different notes as the adhara shadja thus creating different ragas) during the alapana of Kharaharapriya and the pallavi, `Thamarasa Dhala Netri, Tyagarajuni Mitri' was rendered masterfully with swaras in different ragas.Akkarai Subhalakshmi's chic alapanas and crisp swaraprastharas were pleasing. K.V. Prasad on the mridangam, Udupi Sridhar on the ghatam and B.S. Purushothaman on the kanjira wove lively patterns in laya.Homage to composerWhen N. Vijaya Siva sings, the artiste hides behind the awesome presence of the `raga, laya, bhava, rakti and bhakti.' His alapana of Lalitha brought out the delicate pathos of the raga in its essence and `Nannu Brovu Lalitha' (Syama Sastri) was a homage to the composer and a treat to the listener.The majestic Bhairavi preceded Patnam Subramanya Iyer's kriti, `Nee Padhamule Gathiyeni Nammiti.' The RTP in Surutti with the pallavi, `Hare Krishnethi Suratitha Krishna Mana Rakshaka, Maam Raksha' was short and sweet.  The viruthams and lighter songs towards the end were equally enjoyable.Modest and unostentatious Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi's violin had class and calibre. N. Manoj Siva (mridangam) and K. V. Gopalakrishnan (kanjira) formed a lively pair and their `tani' was full of spirit.Majestic voiceSudha Raghunathan's melodious and majestic voice  often melts transporting the rasikas to a world of bliss. The alapana of Simhendramadhyamam and the RTP in Madhyamavathi (Meenakshi, Maa Madurai Meenakshi) stood apart.  Raghavendra Rao on the violin, Neyveli Skanda Subramaniam on the mridangam and Raman on the morsing bejewelled her performance.R.K.Sriram Kumar and V.V.Srivatsa presented enlightening lec-dems on Kamalamba Navavarana kritis and Kamakshi Navarathnamalika kritis respectively on two consecutive Sundays.`Sundara Kandam-part II' was presented by Jaya Srinivasan in her inimitable, confident style with a generous sprinkling of anecdotes and explanations.T.K. Kamala Murthy's uncomplicated method of narration was a pleasure to listen to. Peals of laughter filled the hall while she had her mild digs at the foibles of the society.Up and coming artistes  were given platforms with good, experienced accompanists on all days. Dr. Satish Kumar, the organiser of the event earned a lot of appreciation.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092200070300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092200070305.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VP. Unnikrishnan.
p14
ss.