(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn euphonious harmony
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULStaff artistes of All India Radio, Thrissur, paid musical oblation to Thyagaraja.  The station started independent broadcasting 32 years ago. The event also marked the Golden Jubilee of the station as it was on November 4, 1956, that the Thrissur transmitter was commissioned.Novel ideaAlthough All India Radio is an organisation that can boast its rich musical talent, the programmes that are aired rarely accommodate the entire corpus of artistes owning to several constraints."This was one of the reasons why I had planned such a novel idea," says N. Raghavan, station director, who is also doubling as the director of the Doordarshan Kendra, Thrissur.  As the first number of the Pancharatna kirtanas, `Jagadanandakaraka' in Natta, Adi tala, flowed in, the venue was enveloped in serenity.The male and female voices in unison and in perfect octaves, amazingsruti sudhi, right intonations and able accompaniment  added to the sublime appeal of the kirtanas. `Dudukugala' (Goula raga, Adi tala), `Sadhimchene' (Arabhi raga, Adi tala), `Kanakaruchira' (Varali ragam, Adi tala) and `Entharo mahaanu bhaavulu' (Sree ragam, Adi tala) were completed with clockwork precision in one hour.Veteran musicians V. Gopala Bhagavathar and R. Vaidhyanatha Bhagavathar and former staff members, including Mangad Natesan, Kongarappally Parameswaran Namboodiri and M. Purushothama Sarma, were invited to lead the recital.Senior artistes included Girija Varma, Vamanan Namboodiri, Aroor P. K. Manoharan and K. Manikantan (vocal), A. Ananthapadmanabhan (veena), C. Rajendran, T. H. Subramaniam, C. S. Anuroop and Bangalore Thyagarajan (violin), Jayakrishnan and Chandrasekharan (mridangom), G. Manoharan (ghatom)."This was a touchstone; we propose to take it up on an elaborate scale with more public participation from next year," says Raghavan.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/03/stories/2006020300400200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.