(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe greats on the piano
p3
sVnews
p4
VA major music anniversary (Liszt, born in 1811) has turned my thoughts to the phenomenon of the showmen of the piano. Liszt and Chopin were great pianists but above all, they were composers. The showmen, however, were more concerned with their prowess on the keyboard; composition was secondary and often used for their keyboard display.But a question arises here, were not all the great composers also good pianists? Yes but they used the piano to compose, except Berlioz who did not know how to play the piano, so he composed on the guitar. Let's take Bach; he was an organist and harpsichord player who used these instruments to compose. Indeed, he was good on the harpsichord and with his &#8220;Music Offering&#8221; calmed the nerves of the insomniac Frederick of Prussia and made him fall asleep. Handel was good enough to take part in a contest with Italian composer Domenico Scarlatti on the harpsichord. Haydn was sufficiently knowledgeable to compose a series of great piano sonatas. Mozart was brilliant and toured around Europe in his childhood and youth displaying his talent. When he settled down in Vienna he composed a series of piano concertos for his own concerts. Beethoven began his career as a pianist but had to give up the piano as he grew progressively deaf. Schumann wanted to be a pianist but badly damaged a finger on his right hand by indulging with wrong exercises which put a lid on his plans. The composers used a piano to compose but not the showmen who stormed the 19th Century with their personality.Let us take Hummel first. He was Mozart's pupil and lived with him. Later he became a great pianist and a friend of Beethoven. But he was, though possessing extraordinary talent, a showman of the keyboard. He was a prolific composer and today he is remembered and well recorded. In his later life he put composition above the piano. Not so Clementi who was the first of the showmen. Clementi paid Beethoven to write a piano version of his violin concerto which even today is rarely recorded and played. He left behind some sonatas and these have found a champion in the great pianist Horowitz who often played Clementi. He wrote some symphonies but they were accidently destroyed by fire.Another great showman was Kalkbrenner who was highly regarded by Clara Schumann, and Mendelssohn once said, &#8220;Now I play like Kalkbrenner&#8221;. There are very few compositions that he has left behind. Much less than Clementi. He was highly regarded by Mozart and Beethoven and even Haydn for his brilliant pianism. The first of the truly great showmen of the keyboard was Thalberg who was Liszt's greatest rival. Strikingly handsome, he left people swooning over his piano virtuosity. Today, some his paraphrases and piano concertos are being recorded. But he is remembered through contemporary records as a master of the piano which he was. All his compositions were meant to enhance his pianism. He left behind a few pupils who have talked about his extraordinary piano playing.We now come to Godowsky, an absolutely fantastic phenomenon on the keyboard. His interest was to take up piano compositions of the great composers like Chopin and Liszt, to paraphrase these and make them impossibly difficult for pianists. They were meant for himself to show his prowess. Today, some pianists have started recording these, particularly the paraphrase of Chopin's &#8220;Etudes&#8221; which was considered unplayable. But his compositional output was not slim and that is one of the reasons why he is regarded well by contemporary pianists.Gottschalk is the greatest American pianist of the 19th Century and he was, like all the showmen of the past, a showman above all. Some of his small compositions are recorded and so also the piano concertos. The piano concerto, a composition for the orchestra and piano where the hero of the work was the pianist, was a favourite of the showmen. Through these concertos they displayed their miraculous keyboard capabilities.Twentieth Century greatsBut close to the 20th Century the greatest pianist composer was Rachmaninov. He left behind some recordings, his Chopin playing and his piano concertos. Godowsky and Gottschalk have a few recordings which are collector's items. Rachmaninov was, however, a greater composer than a pianist and so was Prokofiev who, like Rachmaninov, has left behind a large series of piano concertos which have been championed by all the 20th Century great pianists starting with Horowitz.The 20th Century was a century for the great pianists but none of them were showmen like Thalberg or Clementi. These pianists &#8212; Schnabel, Horowitz, Pollini, Parahia, to name a few, were above all, interpreters of the masters. The phenomenon of the pianistic showmen was a 19th Century development on the journey of music. This has happened because music lovers are hungry for great music and not mere virtuosity. But the showmen are important in the history of music.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/25/stories/2011032550350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/25/images/2011032550350301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVERSATILE Besides being talented composers, Chopin (top) and Liszt were great pianists.
p14
ss.