(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRagas... the new rage?
p3
sVnews
p4
VANJANA RAJANPhones are used as ipods themselves. Durga JasrajNOTES AS TONES Hemant Sachdev of Bharti Tele-Ventures flanked by Hari Prasad Chaurasia (left) and Shiv Kumar Sharma at the launch of Indian classical ringtones.There is no escaping people's musical tastes today. As the march of individuality is partnered by the equally powerful march of mass production, we have come to an intriguing pass. People flaunt their personal choices, but these choices are drawn from a pool of common options. Take the telephone. As the world of cell phones and their inherent options burgeons, the old `trrrng trrrng' has long become obsolete. And with the mobile phone doing a much better job at penetrating rural and urban society than education or vaccines, the air around us is forever buzzing with snatches of song and instrumental bits.Recently Idea Cellular made another bright idea available. Cell phone users can download tracks from Indian classical music as ringtones and dialer tones, et al. Some months earlier, Airtel too launched classical music ringtones with fanfare. Interestingly, the launch, held in association with Music Today, featured two of the same artistes as Idea &#151;  Shiv Kumar Sharma and Hari Prasad Chaurasia.Idea's ringtones have been compiled in collaboration with the Indian Music Academy, a Mumbai-based cultural organisation dedicated to classical arts run with the blessings of veterans like Pandit Jasraj. His daughter Durga Jasraj has taken personal interest in the collection.Featured stalwartsArtistes featured include Hari Prasad Chaurasia (Hindustani flute), Shiv Kumar Sharma (santoor), Shahid Parvez (Hindustani vocal) and Parveen Sultana (vocal) among others.While some of the 30-second musical pieces are slow alaps, others are parts of songs, like Pandit Jasraj's popular renderings "Gokulam" and his Mangalam shloka, and Parveen Sultana's trademark "Bhavani Dayani" in Bhairavi. The flute in the raga Jog by Hari Prasad Chaurasia is offered in three `versions', which the mobile user can choose from, but listened to consecutively they sound like one continuous alap. Durga, whose company Art and Artistes produces albums and TV shows as well, justifies the seamless continuity by pointing out that someone might want to download the three options together for a longer loop. Besides, she says, the uses for these musical bits go beyond telephonic use. "Phones are used as ipods themselves."The project is still in its initial stages. Some of the samples are by little-known musicians Durga is reluctant to name, but their advantage is that they have apparently been specially composed, or at least recorded, as ringtones. In the case of the maestros, the samples seem to be drawn from the large bank of their existing recordings. Shiv Kumar Sharma, who has not heard the final product yet, explains, "Initially they had taken some of the ringtones from recordings which were with them." The plan was that he and other stalwarts would record music specially for ringtones, but with their hectic schedules, that has not materialised yet.The motivation is to make classical music available in this format to those who like it, says the maestro. Durga adds in a similar vein that "at the rate technology is going," the possibilities are endless once the portal is in full swing.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/14/stories/2006071401810200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.