(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGreat crowd, fine music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe recent Gokulashtami and Ganesh Festival Concerts at Mysore was an indicator of good response to city's cultural activities.Dr. C.A. Sridhar and Vidwan R.K. Raghavan, both from a family of musicians gave an enthralling performance of veena and flute (jugalbandi) at the Udupi Sri Krishnamandira, Mysore. Notable part of the performance was the lucidity of lyrical grandeur, sublime melody and extolling the svara-stayi sancharis. Raghavan's briskness in the explication of gamakas, particularly in mandara and ati-mandara stayis, and Dr. Sridhar's stability in laya and sublime melody made for good contrast.  Their rendition of Hamsadhwani echoed in the venue with expressive alapana and a creative janti-svara and dattu varise prayogas in the svara prastara. Similar ecstasy in ragas Sunadavinodini, Kadana Kuthuhala, Yaman and the captivating Hindola magnified the classicism of the concert. Vidwan C.A. Guruduth (mridanga) added zest for the success of the performance, despite inadequate support on the ghatam by Shashishankar.Wonderful KeervaniMysore Manjunath on violin and the legendary Vishwamohan Bhat on mohanaveena rendered a wonderful Keervani at the Vanivilas Mohalla Prasanna Vidyaganapathy annual music festival at Mysore. Pandit Vishwamohan Bhat's strokes were unique, while Mysore Manujanth's violin was smart.  Enthralling svara vinyasa, coalescent rhythmical support by Ravindra Yavgal on tabla, Harikumar on mridanga were the hallmarks of the performance. Ravindra Yavgal stole the show with his soft and mellifluous rhythms.Dr. R. K. Srikantan supported by his son Vidwan R.S. Ramakanth, Mysore Nagaraj (violin), Sudheendra (mridanga) and Giridhara Udupa (ghata) made for an excellent team and gave a lively performance at the same venue. Ragabhava and creative svara kalpana provided ornamental value to the concert. Srikantan's conventional classicism and professionalism, combined with a selection of rare compositions from the repertory of eminent composers, drew an unusual crowd to the concert. Beginning from "attatala varnam" of Swathi Tirunal ("Sarasaksha"), the artistes rendered Surati (Dixitar's Navagraha composition "Angaraka Asrayamyham" being Tuesday) coupled with alapana. The other impressive pieces were raga Nata (Purandara Dasa's "Gajamukhane Siddivinayaka") followed by "Jayamahishasura Mardhini" in Hamsadwani. The meticulous alapana and delectable svaralankara of ragas Thodi and Sri (Dixitar's "Mahaganapahtim Vande" and "Sri Mooladhara Chakra Vinayaka") were rendered with impeccable artistry. The jantu and daatu svara prayogas elevated the exquisiteness of these ghana-ragas.R.S. Ramakanth's rendition was note worthy at every point in the concert. The finale, Simhendramadhyama, was memorable.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/07/stories/2005100702790300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/07/images/2005100702790301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLUCID The duo's rendering of Hamsadhwani was particularly impressive
p14
ss.