(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHe gave new dimension to ragas
p3
sVnews
p4
VKRIPA SUBRAHMANAIMIf the raga Karnaranjani, a creation of Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar (1877-1945) has gained popularity among musicians today, the credit goes to  Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan, who  made a practice of singing that raga as a prelude to the kriti "Vanchatonu" with a chittaswaram composed by him. Totally dedicated to Bhagavathar, who was his guru, Seshagopalan made a remarkable presentation of his life and contribution to Carnatic music.He commenced the lec-dem saying Muthiah Bhagavathar was a `Mahan' and that it was virtually impossible to condense his work into a short presentation.  Muthiah's grandfather was Muthu Subbaier, a Sanskrit scholar and an authority on Veda who did pravachanam on the Ramayana and his father was Lingam Iyer. Muthiah Bhagavathar worshipped  Patnam Subramania Iyer.Thanjavur fostered the art of Harikatha and  Lakshmana Suri, father of Justice T.L.Venkatarama Iyer,  and he gave material for Harikatha to  Muthiah Bhagavathar, who initially composed simple kritis. His mudra was `Harikesa.' He was famous for his `Tanam' singing.Bhagavathar introduced musical compositions like Kavadi Chindu, Nondi Chindu and Themmangu in his Harikatha and took ample material from Tamil literature. He was noted for his punning on words. The `note' that was sung and made famous by Madurai Mani Iyer was composed by Muthiah Bhagavathar.He interacted with Abraham Pandithar who was a musicologist of repute and he composed kritis in the line of Tyagaraja, Dikshitar and Syama Sastri.Tradition in innovationSeshagopalan took up the musical forms propagated by Muthiah Bhagavathar for enunciation.  Tradition in innovation and vice versa is found in the kritis of Muthiah Bhagavathar. A kriti in Kadanakudukalam starting with "Giripriyam Gangadharam" was taken up for demonstration. Bhagavathar has done a chittaswaram and has given a different start for this kriti in the tara Shadjam.Chittaswarams did not follow the pattern found in those days and thus he became aDeergadarsi.Bhagavathar composed many varnams with swaraksharams shining like jewels.  "Mana Mohana" was composed for the occasion of thearangetramof Ramanathapuram Sri C.S.Sankarasivam, the foremost disciple of Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar.  This kriti is in praise of Muthuramalinga Sethupathy.Muthiah Bhagavathar's Daru varnam, "Maathe" in Khamas is a model composition. Themukthaiswarams after the anupallavi has swarams, solkattu and sahityam. The fourth chittaswaram of the Daru varnam is embellished with swaraksharam and rhetorical beauties such as Ni Maha Mata, Ni Sama Nigamasani, ManidaGanidariGadarini, Nidamaga. The same phenomenon is seen in the third chittaswaram of the Ata Tala varnam in Mohanam reading as "Dada Sagasa Dada, Padagada, Saga, garida, Parida, Dapadaparigari.Seshagopalan observed the appropriateness of the Daru varnam in the raga khamas (Khamasu khamasu), which has the effect of Vikatakavithvam.Muthiah Bhagavathar moved to Mysore where he was looked after very well by the Maharaja, a musician himself, who brought to light the composing talent of Bhagavathar. Seshagopalan sang "Manamu Kavalanu Talli," in raga Sahana. A chittaswaram was rendered for this piece, which has a personal link. When Bhagavathar sang the song for the first time, in front of the Maharaja, he was indisposed and hence the recital was not one of his best.  He became very upset and sang this kriti in front of Devi Chamundeshwari. The Maharaja happened to hear him sing and immediately made him the Asthana Vidwan.  A good collection was composed after Bahgavathar became the Asthana Vidwan.Seshagopalan underlined the imagination of Muthiah Bhagavathar, who, he said, had mastered the old order so well that he composed new compositions with great ease. Seshagopalan's guru wanted him to do chittaswaram especially for the kritis in the ragas created by him (Muthiah Bhagavathar) and the sishya has happily obliged.Seshagopalan demonstrated the different ways of rendering music. Bhagavathar had a flair for composing kritis in Thisra Nadai, one of which, `Gham Ganapathe,' was rendered by Seshagopalan.  Muthiah Bhagavathar collected about 400 kritis of Swati Tirunal from many households in Trivandrum.  Deep in sorrow over the death of his daughter, Bhagavathar moved to Kasi, where he happened to hear `Sohini,' which reminded him of Hamsanandi. Seshagoplan sang the kriti "Neethu Mahima Pokata Na Tharama" in Hamsanandi, which starts from Nishadam.The "Ganakramam," the unwritten law was taken into account, that is, starting from Thara shadjamam that was in use then. This pattern is adopted in Sivan's "Srinivasa Thiruvengada" and "Pahi Jagatjanani" of Swati Tirunal in Hamsanandi.Rare featureKarnaranjani, Pasupathipriya, and Vijayasaraswathi raga kritis were sung with chittaswarams. T.N.Seshagopalan observed the raga created by Muthiah Bhagavathar as Budha Manohari. This raga has been the result of the Gruhabeda, taking the Madhyamam Moorchanai of Kuntalavarali. Seshagopalan sang "Igane Tala" in Guha Ranjani raga. The Kapi raga kriti, "Raga Brahmamaanar," was sung. This kriti was composed when Seshagopalan performed a Harikatha on the life of Muthiah Bhagavathar as Gayakamani Charithram in which he had included all the ragas created and popularised by the guru."Oshtai" means joining of the lips. In raga Niroshta, the notes ma and pa are avoided and thus the lips do not join. The important feature being even in the sahithyam the lips do not join. Seshagopalan demonstrated this aspect through the song, "Rajaraja Aradhithe, Nadhanithe Sharade."Own compositionA tillana in Niroshta composed by Seshagopalan with the ankitha "Harikesa Dasa" was sung. It was a new experience to hear the tillana starting in the higher octave, swaras, solkattu, and sahityam adhered to the raga Niroshta.The kriti, "Shantamaga Katchi Tandidum" in Yadhukula Khambodi is on Lord Narasimha and this kriti followed the spoken Tamil dialect of Tirunelveli. It was from the Harikatha tradition that ragas such as Jonpuri, Sindhu Bhairavi, and Kapi got popularised, Seshagopalan said. He rounded off the lec-dem with "Maamoor Valamperuga Vanda Kali" in Sindhu Bhairavi.Apart from creating new ragas, Muthiah Bhagavathar had explored all the possibilities of the ragas, which were handled by the Trinity, and gave a new dimension with a fresh approach.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/05/stories/2007010502320500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/05/images/2007010502320502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFUND OF INFORMATION:  Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.