(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt rained thumris and taans
p3
sVnews
p4
VPrakriti Foundation&#8217;s Deutsche Bank Gharana Music Festival (March 23-25, Museum Theatre) offered a rare opportunity to hear shehnai live, by an exemplar of the Banares school, who refused to deviate even a fraction from the tradition handed down to him.It was obvious that for Pandit Krishna Ram Choudhury, accompanied by Hemant Raj Choudhury, music is a natural part of life, not a stage show. (The artist asked for houselights to see the audience, though he played always with his eyes closed!)The veteran did not indulge in explosions of sound and fury, or mannerisms to please modern trends.The tihaayis, when they came, were part of the flow. Each piece ended with gentle taperings, innocent of applause-stimulating gimmicks. There were two-drum tablas by Sumitram Dohkar and dukkad by Pyarelal, but no percussion interlude.Choudhary began with Purya Dhanashri in a short alaap outline, followed by compositions in slow ek taal, pushing up tempos in teen taal.The vilambit progressed stage by stage, with no other thought than dwelling on each note, curve, phrase and gamak, in perfect sruti.  The blowing and fingering techniques were so honed as to seem effortless.The Behag thumri made ripples on the river, and meandered into other ragini streams.The Purvi dhun had its own lilts and glints. The Bhairavi finale with the famous &#8216;Ajaa sanwariya&#8217; spot-lit the many specialities of the eastern thumri stylistics. The music was wholesome, and was over before it could satiate.What a pity that in this reputedly music-loving city, so few lucky listeners came to the outstanding sitar recital of Irshad Khan! The young ustad&#8217;s plain kurta implied a dislike for glitter. His strings proved his thirst for pure gold. He did not underestimate the intelligence or the taste of his listeners.Irshad Khan did not have to say that he belonged to a glorious gharana (Ettawa-Imdad Khani), his uncle was the fabled Vilayat Khan, father was Imrat Khan, or that he counted famed vocalists among maternal ancestors. His sitar recalled them with humility and flair.Opening Yamankalyan was compact, but revealed singular mellifluousness and equally singular taiyyari. The alaap made every note glow with anuswaras even in simple dha-ni-re, ni-re-ga or just ni-ga. No overload anywhere, not even with the astonishing gamakas of his gharana where with a single pull of the string, the musician brought off a glide of myriad notes. You did wish for a slower-paced vilambit to infuse more dynamism into the drut build up.After the throbbing pulse of jod, the gat plunged into Rupak taal cycles with Rudranarayan Kalyani on the tabla. Their team spirit was notable. The tabla highlighted melody. When Kalyani launched his own rhythm passages the sitar played no repetitive track but continued with softer music.Such variety! Swara clusters propelled in different rhythms, a different note emphasised in repeating the same phrase, a meend here, a pause there, a fast spray looped into the slow phrase, a hard stroke, a tinkling chime, a sudden contour, an unexpected tihaayi.The suddha madhyam came in spare, tantalising flashes, gone before it was felt. There were vocal effects in high speed taans.Desh came next in a Hori (composed by grandfather Inayat Khan), followed by a superb exposition of the tantrakari ang in teen taal (set by great grandfather Imdad Khan). There was fire here, without fireworks. The strings did not forsake melody in high speeds, nor hit shrill notes in the high octave. The komal gandhar made a cameo appearance.The post-interval session began with Irshad Khan sporting blue hair under mood lighting, while Kalyani turned amber.However, raag Philu retained its original colours, refracted through thumri meends, gamaks and rhythms, with anya swaras adding to raga aesthetics. The gharanas gayaki ang came into its own in the melting gamaks. Of course, singing strengthened the magic.Next, Irshad Khan caressed the moods of intoxication and surrender in &#8216;Chaap Tilak Mosay Chheen&#8217;, the magnificent kalam of Amir Khusro, a favourite with qawwals. A better voice mike would have made it more potent.Bhairavi ended the recital in a rain of lyrics from old favourites, voice and string trying to outdo each other in capturing their nuances. At a certain point, &#8216;Sanwariya&#8217; became meditative, extracting tenderness from every swara and syllable.An array of ragas &#8212;Lalit, Behag, Jog, Kedar, Nand, Basant, Bahar, Shankara &#8212; sliding into Hamsadhwani, Miyan ki Malhar, forked into bylanes, not always returning definitively to Bhairavi as wished or expected. Rudranarayan Kalyani was at his quietest here, and at his most masterly.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/27/stories/2009032751330300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/03/27/images/2009032751330302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUstad Irshad Khan.
p14
ss.