(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIntricacies of  kalpanaswara
p3
sVnews
p4
VLAKSHMI VENKATRAMANVidwan Tiruvengadu Jayaraman presented an illuminating lecture-demonstration on rendering kalpanaswara for Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha. But more interesting were his observations before he began the main fare.First Jayaraman sought to dispel the three myths in prevalence now &#151;  that gurukulavasam was not possible now and that the Carnatic musicians have learnt to sing raga alapana and voice culture from the Hindustani musicians.Saint Tyagaraja in his kriti `Sobillu Saptaswara' explains how the voice has to be produced, which means that the concept of voice culture existed in the south even during his time; RTP is the ultimate and our artistes were able to handle it expertly even decades ago; he said that Carnatic and Hindustani methods were different and there was no need to get mixed up.Mani Iyer's choiceHaving been a disciple of Madurai Mani Iyer, Jayaraman dwelt upon his system of singing sarvalagu swaras. While it was Mani Iyer's choice, he was not opposed to `layabaddham' swara singing. Tala-based swara singing has to be done very carefully; if a mistake occurs it would be difficult to adjust without expertise; also such `layabaddham' was preconceived and practised at home before performing on the stage and in Jayaraman's opinion it was not fair to expect the accompanists to learn that on the spot and play. Certain set of `layabaddhams' could be used for various ragas, but they were not universally applicable.Sarvalalgu is simpler; `lagu' means easy but it also means `kalapramana.' Sarvalagu offers joy without impediments and can take the audience along. Tala calculations, on the other hand, are more difficult.  Sarvalagu is present in singing raga, in sangatis for kritis and also in swara singing.Tisram, Misram and Jandai can be incorporated in sarvalagu. Learning of varnams would make it easy, because they contain varieties of sarvalagu applications. Jayaraman regretted the current tendency where learning varnams was considered a waste of time; according to him varnam is to Carnatic music what grammar is to a language.He sang Nattai and Arabhi varnams to demonstrate his point. He also demonstrated how a set of four or five swaras could be dealt with in different permutations and combinations. That was the methodology followed in the past and he had undergone such training.According to Jayaraman, everything has been explored in the past, and it is left to us to research into them. On request he rendered ``Ramabhakti Samrajyam" with kalpanaswaras.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122202170700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122202170701.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTiruvengadu Jayaraman.
p14
ss.