(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VClear rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. VIJAYAMBIKAA delightful programme was held at Vithuni Saneeswara Temple, Noorani, Palakkad, in connection with a programme to honour Veenavidvan V.M. Sankaran Namboodiri. He was awarded the title `Nadachandrika,' by Swati Sangeetha Sabha, Palakkad.Pursuing a musical journey for the last four decades, Sankaran Namboodiri served at Swati Tirunal Sangeetha College, Thiruvananthapuram, for several years and retired from Chembai Memorial Music College, Palakkad.A Carnatic vocal concert by Sreedevi Vasudevan followed the programme.Her full-throated voice and deep knowledge of Sanskrit helped her in rendering the kritis clearly and made it easy for the audience to grasp the meaning of the songs as most of the songs were in Sanskrit. A rendition of a kriti composed by her found the discerning listeners enjoying it.Sreedevi began the concert with an Adi tala varanam in Sreeraga `Sami Ninne Kori,' and proved her rhythmic skills by repeating the same in this ragathi and second speed.It was followed by a Thulaseevana kriti, `Bhajamanasa Vighneswaramanisam' in raga Bahudari set to Adi tala and a melodiousmanodharma swaraprastharaensued.Treat for devoteesHer selection of the Navagraha kriti by Muthuswami Dikshitar, `Divakarathanujam Sanaiswaram,' in raga Yadukula Kamboji set to Adi tala (two kala) dedicated to Lord Saneeswara, the deity of the temple, was a treat for the devotees.After the chowka kala kriti, a fast number `Gopananandana,' a Swati Tirunal composition in raga Bhooshavali, set to Adi tala, created a delightful mood. `Karunakara mamava' by Swati Tirunal, embellished with Madhyamakala sahithyam in raga Begada, set to Roopaka tala, elatedrasikas. `Sree Kalabhastheesa' by Muthuswami Dikshitar in raga Husseni, set to Khanda Chappu, in praise of the deity at Kalahasthi, Lord Siva, captured the aesthetic richness of the composition.A virutham preceding the Uthsava samepradaya kriti by Swati Tirunal for the second day in raga Thodi was elaborated by evoking theraghabhavato the fullest. `Pankajakhanam Ramesa' set to Adi tala (Thisragathi), rich with niraval at `Padmanabha Pahipahi' and `Manodharmaswara Praasthara,' struck a chord with the music buffs.The raga taken for detailedalapanawas Panthuvarali, which was classical and mellifluous. The main item, her composition `Vandeham Dharmasastharam,' dedicated to Sabarimala Sreedharmasastha, was crafted carefully with well-chosen images.In the Thaniavarthanam, Kuduthirapully Venkitesh tried a few Kanakkus in Thisram. Nallur Nandan on the violin and Kodunthirapally Venkitesh on the mridangam provided adequate support throughout the concert.The Thukkadas sung were a padam by Irayimman Thampi `Somopama mukhi' in raga Saveri set to Misra Chappu, a Swati bhajan in Hindi `Bansivale He manamohana' in raga Pahadi and a Tamil song `Karunai Devivame Karpakamae' in raga Sindhu Bhairvai.She concluded the recital with a tillana in Hameer Kalyanai, composed by the late Kalamandalam Hyderali.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/23/stories/2006062300950300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/23/images/2006062300950301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMAKING HER MARK: Sreedevi Vasudevan's voice and diction impressed the audience.
p14
ss.