(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFestivals with a reason
p3
sVnews
p4
VWhile Odissi dance claimed classical status and global recognition within a very short span of time, Odissi music  is still struggling for the  recognition, owing to a lack of patronage and publicity. To fill in the void, Bhubaneswar-based popular Odissi singer couple Bijay Kumar Jena and Harapriya Swain came up with a commendable initiative.They have been hosting an annual Odissi music festival in the city for the past four years, apart from grooming scores of budding vocalists at Shruti, their small school of music.The recently-concluded fourth edition of Shruti sangeet utsav spread over three evenings and held at the Jayadev Bhawan devoted two sessions for Odissi music and left the last evening for the light music singers, another dying genre of Oriya music.Guru Ramahari Das, the couple&#8217;s guru and noted Odissi music composer, performed an emotive rendition of theAstapadisfrom Jayadev&#8217;s Geet Govind. Das demonstrated all the three salient features of Odissi singing style &#8212;raganga, bhabanga and natyanga, much to the cheer of the audience.His disciples Sukasnta Kumar Kundu and Bijay Kumar Jena &#8212; both known as brilliant vocalists &#8212; also regaled with their renditions of traditional numbers. Budding vocalist Sagarika Kundu of Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Bhubaneswar also performed.Noted percussionist Bijay Kumar Barik, who is usually seen as an accompanist to Odissi dancers, made a pulsating presentation of solomardal(Odissi pakhawaj) recital. The duet presentation of mardal and tabla by Sachidananda Das and Tapal Pal respectively was alsoequallyelectrifying. Shruti Foundation conferred Pandit Bhubaneswar Mishra memorial Samman on violinist Baidhar Rout during the festival.The mythical character of Ekalavya fromThe Mahabharatinspired three young male dancers to launch an annual classical dance festival to pay respect to their respective gurus.They were Odissi dancer Saswat Joshi from Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru-based Bharatanatyam dancer Unnath Jain and Kolkata&#8217;s Kathak dancer Sourav Roy, who became friends through internet a few months earlier.The festival will be held in their respective cities on a rotational basis. The first edition of the festival was hosted at the Rabindra Mandap in Bhubaneswar recently by Saswat, a disciple of Ileana Citaristi, the Italian Odissi dancer .Ileana inaugurated the event and blessed the six young dancers who performed on the occasion. She also felicitated Odissi dancer Raashmirekha Das with the Ekalabya Award for her devotion and commitment to dance .The three male dancers came together on stage,  to mark the auspicious beginning of their annual homage to their gurus. It was followed by their individual solo recitals.While Saswat stagedSivastkam, choreographed by his Guru Ileana, Unnath opted for Ganesh Vandana as the invocatory piece followed by allaripu and varnam. Sourav&#8217;s Kathak segment had an impressive presentation of taal dhamar set to 14 beats.Odissi dancers Minati Pradhan and Leena Nanda, who also trained Saswat in Odissi during his formative years, were felicitated and invited to perform. Ekalavya awardee Rashmirekha was at her best in executing the popular abhinaya number,TolagiGopadanda Manare Kaliasuna, choreographed by her guru,  Kelucharan Mohapatra.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/30/stories/2009013050290200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/01/30/images/2009013050290202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRamahari Das.
p14
ss.