(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFull of frills and flourish
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKIt was a performance set to pace and tempo-clad. With the two voices adding punch to exposition, with the mridangist Madirimangalam Swaminathan pounding the instrument and with S. Karthick applying palm-pressure on the ghatam, Rudrapatnam Brothers, R. N. Thyagarajan and R. N. Tharanathan saw to it that the kutcheri conformed fully to the present day platform culture.Rarely was there an indication of visranti even when all the songs were  Tyagaraja's. This was on the occasion of the saint-composer's Jayanti arranged by Narada Gana Sabha in association with Saraswathi Vaggeyakara Trust."Vidulaku" (Mayamalavagowla) "Samayamu Telisi" (Asaveri) "Yagnaadulu" (Jayamanohari) and "Aaragimpave" (Todi, with a brief alapana) formed the early part of the concert with kalpanaswaras tagged on to every piece and particularly at three points in the Mayamalavagowla kirtana. Cannot musicians resist the  temptation of swaras at least on Tyagaraja Jayanti and aradhana days as being observed at the Tiruvaiyaru festival?In this context,  Soolamangalam Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar (1866-1943), a Harikatha exponent who revered Tyagaraja and who was held in great esteem by many musicians of his era, in his thumbnail sketches of some vidwans of his time has this to record of three prominent sishyas of  Tyagaraja. I quote: "Although the brothers (Umayalpuram Krishna Bhagavathar and Umayalpuram Sundara Bhagavathar) had a high degree of swara gnana, out of deference to the wishes of their master, they never indulged in kalpanaswaras. Of Tillaisthanam Rama Iyengar, he says: "Although Rama Iyengar was a past master in the art of singing kalpanaswaras, he refrained from doing so lest his own creative music should to a certain extent obliterate the beautiful impression of the compositions." Such was the reverence to  Tyagaraja.M. A. Sundareswaran was the violinist who stood firmly by the accompanist's dharma of reflecting the mood and the motivation of the vocalists.Emphasis on raktiShowing good vocal management in raga alapanas and rendering of kirtanas, Prema Rangarajan framed her concert for Nada Inbam on the strength of Ritigowla, Sahana and Shanmukhapriya. Though there was no  passion and excitement in her exposition, there was substance particularly in the elaboration of Sahana placing proper emphasis on its rakti aspect.Similarly, the song "Abhayaambaayam" was also satisfying. The other two &#151;  Ritigowla ("Ragaratna Maalikache" and Shanmukhapriya "Vadane" of  Tyagaraja &#151;  were built on settled lines. The violinist V. L. Kumar was often prone to exhibit the prowess in adjusting kanakku swaras and exotic raga sancharas. Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar (mridangam) was modest to extend that much support as the songs needed.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/20/stories/2005052002640400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/20/images/2005052002640401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VYOUNG TALENT: Ramjhi's Isai Mazhalai singing Pancharatna kritis at Thiagaraja Sangeetha Vidwath Samajam  on May 14.  PHOTO: K. V. Srinivasan.
p14
ss.