(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA flight of his own
p3
sVnews
p4
VVIJAY SAI"My bond with this city is growing by the year," Sanjeev Abhyankar says, as he comes panting into the green room. "You know this is at least my tenth performance in Bangalore and the last three times has been in this year only and am being called in January again!" I wait for him to settle down and tune the tanpura."So how has the Bengalooru experience been?" I try to provoke him. "I first performed here when I was barely 13 in 1983. Since then it has changed a lot and for good. It is a culturally conscious city. Moreover, it is always an honour to perform anywhere in Karnataka. This is the land of legends like Mallikarjun Mansur, Bhimsen Joshi and Gangubai Hangal. This state is probably the best in south India for Hindustani music lovers. And if I start talking of the food here, I can go on for hours together," he laughs.The older generation of artists see you as a young genius and the younger generation is way too confused, how do you see yourself? "The younger generation of artists has a whole plethora of legends to look up to. The struggles and challenges for the older generation were different. The current generation does get it a little easy. Technology has developed. Young artists get to release a lot many CDs and the exposure is huge. Travelling has become easy. The youngsters should utilise their energy in improving their art. But there are also challenges. Look at the pollution levels and it is difficult to maintain ones voice. It is also a challenge to hold an audience for two hours today with so many distractions. "What are Sanjeev Abhyankar's notions of the music parampara, particularly for someone who doesn't come from a family of musicians? "I have had a humble beginning. But I have inherited a great legacy from my gurus. While it is important to be aware of those assets, it is also important to make your own mark," he explains. According to him, the audiences are ready to listen to new music and even appreciate it. What is eventually going to remain is what one has done as a musician and not for who you are , he adds.Performing to a houseful audience in the Ambedkar Bhavan as a part of the Bengaluru Habba celebrations what was clear about him was that he was no longer, what critics once called, "a chip of the old block".His music is no longer what it used to be about a few years back. This was a newly self-created identity that he was trying to put forward and it won him all the applause. For all those people who still think he is the flag-bearer of something, he comes in with a surprise. "Each artist has to evolve with age and time. You will always have the blessings and guidance of your gurus but it is you who have to take the maximum effort to sustain that energy."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802110300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802110301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINDEBTED Sanjeev Abhyankar says he owes a lot to his gurus  Photo: R. Shivaji Rao
p14
ss.