(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSimple Tamil lyrics  pleasingly rendered
p3
sVnews
p4
VCarnatica CAR CD 1022Carnatic Classical VocalBhakti RasamNithyasree Mahadevan (Rs. 199)Brazil Dr. Subramaniam is a prolific composer of devotional compositions on the various deities in the Hindu religious pantheon. His songs with simple Tamil lyrics have an appealing emotional quotient and are wrapped in pleasing melodies set to uncomplicated talas that lend a free flow to the oral expression.PleasingNithyasree Mahadevan, the dulcet voiced musician, has presented quite a few  songs for Carnatica beginning with an Amruthavarshini kriti as an invocatory offering to Lord Ganesha. A slick, exuberant delineation of Atana bears the signature of the artiste's customary felicitous singing.Lively, precise, persuasive kalpanaswaras adorn the Pallavi sequence of "Mahalakshmi Thaye" in Todi.An imaginative chittaswaram for "Manamohana" in the eternal charmer Kuntalavarali, has a grip on one's auditory sensibilities.Nithyasree's Poorvikalyani alapana, absolutely sruti aligned, is an elegant mosaic studded with ear-friendly prayogas sung with natural elan.The sahitya "Nandakumaram Ramam Narayanam Narada Hrudaya Nivasam Narasimham," chosen for niraval is appropriate, as the Lord's Nama repeated time and again is conducive to mental peace and a sense of well-being. The vibrant impromptu swara forays merit positive evaluation.The violinist M. A. Krishnaswami's raga expansion of Poorvikalyani and the swara repartees are professional displays."En Manamaalum" in Veenavadhini, "Sonnal Podhadhe" in Karnaranjani and "Nandanandana" in Desh, articulated with innate spontaneity, tonal delicacy and diction as chaste as the Queen's English, stress the fact that Nithyasree is a standard bearer of an inspired, hallowed tradition.I. Sivakumar (mridangam) and S. V. Viswanathan (ghatam) are the percussionists providing sustained support throughout the programme.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/09/stories/2005090904070500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.