(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSong of the heart, soul of a people
p3
sVnews
p4
VSHUJAAT BUKHARI`Dai Kher Karus Pot Alau Dis, Ya Ash Dadrai Che Traw Mateu' (Pray for him or call him back or weep as much you can). When Bashir Dada, a prominent poet, writer, actor and director wrote these lines way back in 1988, he never had in mind that 15 years later it would not only give him recognition in Kashmiri society but also introduce the young singer Waheed Jeelani to the thousands of music lovers in Kashmir with a big bang. Since it was first sung by the 32-year-old Jeelani in 2003 and broadcast on Radio Kashmir Srinagar, no song in light music has been able to beat it in three years.Is it the message the song carries or Waheed's fine performance that has made it the most sought after among Kashmiri music lovers? "It is both", says Dada. "I was myself overwhelmed with the response". In fact the song written purely with a romantic idea and tinge, reflects the Kashmir of today. It makes an appeal to one who has left home. It could be a migrant Kashmiri Pandit seen as part of "Kashmiriyat" or a young Kashmiri Muslim who after feeling "disgusted" at the hands of rulers decided to take up arms and goes across the Line of Control to acquire training in arms and ammunition.But when it comes to the second stanza it is linked to the latter when Dada says "Yus Sham Dalith Aze Nanworeu, Gare Trwith Koh Kut Darv Mateu" (The one who left his home at the dusk bare-footed leaving behind home and hearth)". The would-be militants usually would leave in the evening to start the tedious journey of crossing the LOC in the early 1990s. Dada says that it was originally a title song written for a tele-serial "Faisele" (Decision).Poetic collectionDada who has written 35 poems in Kashmiri started his journey as an Urdu poet. But it was one of his friends in Anantnag who motivated him to write in Kashmiri. "Once I wrote in Kashmir, I felt at ease," says Dada, who is shortly releasing his poetic collection in Urdu, "Ham Chinar Waley Hein". It was a well-known poet in South Kashmir Abdur Rehman Azad who was highly impressed with his Kashmiri poetry. Just with one stanza, "Qader Mainey Che Hachnawee Zamaney, Kathan Miyanen Che Karakh Taweez Paney" (Time will tell you about my worth and you will make amulets out of what I say)", Azad said.What is interesting is that another poem written by Dada is far more powerful in reflecting the pain and agony of Kashmiris, but it is "yet to take off". Starting with "Kanh Pase Khuda Insaf Kareu" (For God's sake can someone do justice with us)", the poem, again written 15 years back, could be easily linked with former Chief Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed's "healing touch" doctrine. "With the changing situation I have certainly made some amendments", says Dada.But he is not happy with the way Radio Kashmir is treating his songs, saying there was an attempt to block them, particularly the second one. Last time a former director of Radio Kashmir intervened and ensured that it was played every time on people's demand. However, RK's music incharge Nissar Naseem says, "It is not true. Whenever there is bulk demand we play it." Feeling it is not advisable to repeatedly play the same song, he admits, "So far it is the most popular song". On his part Waheed also acknowledges his being a popular voice with this song. "Whatever I am is because of this song of Dada". Waheed, who is a grade `A' radio artiste, was recently in London to attend a music festival organised by non-resident Kashmiris. "I had to sing this song eight times and still there was unabated demand,", he recalls. Waheed also laments the improper treatment being meted out at Radio Kashmir. "There is no encouragement". But he is committed to bring out a new album exclusively with Dada's songs. "It will happen soon", says Waheed who is currently heading Zee Kashmir's music division in Srinagar.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/13/stories/2006011301570300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/13/images/2006011301570301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUNBEATABLE COMBINATION Waheed Jeelani's youthful voice and his rendering of Bashir Dada's song has made both of them extremely popular among music lovers
p14
ss.