(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VSai Karthikeya a child prodigy at one time learnt under veteran Kollegal Subramanyam initially and later went under the tutelage of N.S. Srinivasan, who shaped him into a full fledged concert singer. Academically this young man is an engineer now.He was in the company of M. Umashanker on violin and P. Srinivas Gopalan on Mridangam on this occasion. The concert was held recently in DD colony.Sai Kartikeya, whose name is quite popular now in concert circles has imbibed all the qualities of a matured artiste. Blessed with a pleasant voice, this young man displayed at every stage his &#8216;Gjnanam' as part of his manodharma exercises.Sai opened with popular kanada ata tala varnam- Neranammithe and presented it with steady laya and clarity, exercising his voice well.The devotional number he chose on this occasion was popular number of Thygaraja Parama Pavana in Athana. He rendered enjoying every bit of its sahitya content.The swarakalpana he presented later also was focused at display of his rich imagination, displaying swift and crisp swara combinations. Sai's next number was Sarasiruha Nayane in Amrithavarshini, a simple offering.Hindolam was his first major raga effort, delineating which he revealed his taste for beauty. Govardhanagiridharisham in this was a pleasant sahitya expression conveying its mood.Sai also delineated Varali with detailed ragalapana, for the Kriti Kamakshi in Misrachapu talam.Raga's melodic flow was carried into kriti rendition. The neraval and swarakalpana were soothing exercises, reflecting his imagination. Ninnada in Malavi he rendered then was a simple kirtana. It was followed by Papanasam Sivan's engaging song Ennai Maruvakane.Sakarabharanam was Sai's major raga effort of the concert, for the kriti Akshayalinga Vibho, set in misrachapu Talam. Young Sai Kartikeya made this exercise most relishing with nuances here and there.The kirtana rendition with nereval and swarakalpana revealed this young man's sense for aesthetics. Violinist Uma Sankar lent a uniformly good support adding his own imagination in the built of raga and swaras, rendering the whole exercise enchanting and meaningful.The Tani avartanam by Srinivas Gopalan in Tisrachapu talam with half edam was alluring well calculated mathematical exercise.Of the end pieces, Tambura Meetedava in Sindhubhairavi of Purandaradasa and Dhanasree Tillana were notable. Put together this young man Sai Kartikeya's concert proved quite promising.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/17/stories/2010091750370300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/17/images/2010091750370301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMesmerised Karthik at the performance.
p14
ss.