(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn wings of emotion
p3
sVnews
p4
VGAUTAM CHATTERJEEI like experimenting. I prefer it. But traditionally evolved gayaki is my greatest love in classical singing.Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, the well-known young classical vocalist, represents the present generation of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana established by Ustad Alladiya Khan Saheb but with a slightly different taste and grace. After Pandit Mallikarjun Mansoor died in 1992, music lovers felt a  vacuum in the Jaipur gayaki, but in an interesting way Ashwini explores a new horizon of this gayaki."It is different only in terms of modern concerns of gayaki, but in the traditional way, I am trying to touch the soul and heritage of this very gayaki," responds Ashwini humbly while on a visit to  Varanasi.Trained under Ratanakar Pai and Manik Bhide, Ashwini grew up imbibing the essence of the Jaipur-Atrauli gayaki or style of Ustad Alladiya Khan. As one knows, his method of presenting the sthayi was noted for its grandeur  and dignified approach. He gave due importance to the laya of the tala in which the composition was set. His music was gamak-oriented: whether it was bol, taan or alap, the music had the undulation or swing of gamak.The nuances that differentiate the Jaipur style from the Agra gharana have been presented by Shrikrishna (Babanrao) Haldankar in his recent book,  "Aesthetics of Agra and Jaipur Traditions".Ashwini initially followed the path as shown by Pandit Datar, Ratnakar Pai and her mother Manik Bhide, but after evolving and experimenting, she is now revealing new vistas  of classical singing within the vast horizon of the Jaipur style.Carving her own space"Actually, if one accepts the conclusions of Khan Saheb's gayaki, one wonders how women singers like Kesarbai Kerkar and Mogubai Kurdikar, who were Alladiya Khan Saheb's disciples, emerged as great singers of their time. The reason was that the original vigorous gayaki was modified by Alladiya Khan Sahab to suit the voice and temperament of his female disciples.  I had to make more of an effort in this respect. That is what I am doing," Ashwini explains.The Jaipur gharana is known for its selecting joda ragas for stage performance like Sampurna Malkauns, but Ashwini selects pure ragas like Vasant and Gaud Malhar. She  presents the sthayi of Gaud Malhar in an interesting way within the aura of the Jaipur gayaki with long bol alap in a slow tempo: "Mana na kari rori tumare karan ayo meha" (in Teen tala). "I like experimenting. I prefer it. But traditionally evolved gayaki is my greatest love in classical singing. Nobody is going to listen to the same raga as earlier presented  by Pandit Mallikarjun Mansoor, and again in my voice. Hence the style matters. When I sing Puriya Dhanashri, I first establish the entire ambience of Dhanashri with its essential notes and then touch the feelings of Puriya to make it  flow naturally," Ashwini avers.Having recently returned from a tour of the U.S., she is now preparing a second book of her compositions. The first book, titled "Raga Rachananjali", was a compilation of over 70 of her own compositions."When I start the drut or chhota khayal of Gaud Malhar "Barakha bairi bhayo sajaniya jane na det mohe pee ki nagariya", I enter into the rare feelings of barkha (rain) and if the more vakra taans are required, I allow them to flow with the mood. I lose my individuality in the intricate  taans and bol alap and relish the creative moments, the joy of simply singing. The joy is the flight."Her tranquil face, her voice that is the vehicle of pure emotion, remind us that the musical intensity that brings such bliss to listeners is sometimes forged in the depths of sorrow.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/14/stories/2006071401790200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/14/images/2006071401790201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTradition today Ashwini Bhide Deshpande
p14
ss.