(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VJoyful experience
p3
sVnews
p4
VYoung vocalist duo K.V. Krishnaprasad and S.R.Vinay shone forth in their vocal duet held at Sri Rama Mandira of Narasimharaja Colony during Sri Ramanavami festival. The concert also reflected their sound training under the veteran vocalist R.K. Padmanabha. The key word of the duet was synchronisation; manodharma and vidwath. A formidable foundation was laid for a successful concert with the Todi varna. The rendering of "Siddhi Vinayakam" (Shanmukhapriya) and "Rangapura vihara" in an attractive gait gave the recital the truly classical touch. The rasikas were delighted to hear "Kaliyugada mahime" (Saramathi) and "Devadi Deva" (Sunada Vinodini). Shankarabharana was evocative. The exploration of the raga was done in a systematic framework.The young singers Krishnaprasad and Vinay dressed up the raga with taste and projected their ingenuity at all stages of singing in detail. Nalina Mohan (violin), C. Cheluva Raju (mridanga) and M.A. Krishnamurthy (ghata) were the seasoned accompanists.Veteran singer Neela Ramagopal lavished her singing with restraint and classicism in her vocal recital held at the Seshadripuram College auditorium in connection with the 60th Sri Ramanavami music festival of Seshadripuram Sri Rama Seva Samithi.The slow, but intense renditions accounted for a happy blend of  Carnatic artistry and aesthetics. Balamuralikrishna's Hamsadhwani varna was a good start. Jayachamaraja Wadiyar's quaint krithi "Ksheerasagara shayana" (Mayamalavagowla) was a nice audio experience. Maha Vaidyanathaiyer's Melaraga krithi was a bonus-item of the contents of the kutcheri. The systematic and gradual progression of notes in the ragas Todi (Thyagaraja's "Araginchave"), Sriranjini (Dikshitar's rare krithi "Sri Ramachandra") and Kalyani ("Enduku nee manasu karagadu", with raga, sahitya and swara vistaras) created the mood and the krithis that followed were a flowering of the central strain. Charulatha Ramanujam (violin), A. Kumar (mridanga) and Guruprasanna (khanjari) enriched the recital with their utilitarian support. Neela's disciple Vrinda Acharya lent her vocal support.Young Ashwini Shyamprakash, talented daughter-disciple of Guru B.K.Shyam Prakash gave a creditable account of her understanding of Bharatanatya in her performance for EWCEP at Nayana auditorium. Her dedication to dance and sincerity of purpose bolstered up by hard work and inborn talent yielded rich results. The explication of Govardhana Giridhari, her grandfather late H.R. Keshava Murthy's Kannada varna "Ninnane Nambidenayya" , javali ("Idene sakhi", Behag) and Dasapada ("Pogadiralo Ranga", Shankarabharana) were a treat to watch. The concluding Hindola tillana provided the fine finale. Guru Shyamprakash (nattuvanga), Srivatsa (vocal), Jayaram (flute) and Janardhana Rao (mridanga) contributed to the success  of the dance recital.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/05/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/05/09/stories/2008050951020300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.