(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIt is raining music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Music and Fine Arts faculty of Delhi University and the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) celebrated the rains with umpteen varieties of Malhar during their Malhar Utsav held recently. Sumati Sabhagar overflowed with music-loving students and knowledgeable faculty members inspiring the artistes to give their best with their discerning response during the two-day festival, which offered a rich variety of vocal and instrumental music comprising dhrupad, khayal, sarod and flute recitals in Hindustani and Carnatic music at Delhi University.The festival reached its climax with an impressive performance by Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, who opened his vibrant vocal recital with raga Miyan Malhar's bara khayal &#8216;Karim naam tero', the famous composition of Adarang. He underlined the focal points of this major variety of Malhar during the gradual progression of the majestic raga with the oscillation of komal gandhar and the sensitive treatment of the twin nishads. The rhythmic play of bol taans and the torrents of gamak and aakar taans depicted the thundering clouds and showers. The chhota khayal &#8216;ab ghan barase' followed in teen tala.Seamless treatmentJayant Malhar, a compound of ragas Jaijaiwanti and Malhar, came next with a few exquisite compositions. The &#8216;sam' of the first composition, &#8216;Barkha ritu aayi', came melodiously on the pivotal notes &#8216;re ga ma ga'. The second one, &#8216;Badara tum garajo ber ber', was a delectable composition of Pandit Ramashray Jha, which was followed by an old traditional composition set to Drut Ektala. Kashalkar maintained the twin shades of the raga all through its seamless treatment. He was ably accompanied by Vinay Mishra on harmonium and Pandit Suresh Talwalkar, who would echo the most minute nuances of the vocalist on his tabla. Kashalkar also sang a traditional tarana in Gaud Malhar.Riveting recitalPandit Biswajit Roy Chaudhury gave a scintillating sarod recital earlier. He, in fact, started with a very illuminating talk on types of Malhar, by way of classifying Malhar on the basis of the usage of gandhar, that is, Malhar with komal, with sudhdha and with both the gandhars, enlisting even the exception of Suddha Malhar and Surdasi Malhar having none of them. He named around 25 varieties of Malhar with their salient characteristic features.Biswajit opened his scholarly sarod recital with detailed aalap-jod and a couple of compositions in Ramdasi Malhar, before moving to Gaud Malhar. He also rendered compositions in Surdasi Malhar and Miyan ki Malhar, concluding with a rare composition in Kafi Malhar. The renowned dhrupad exponent Ustad Wasifuddin Dagar heralded the Malhar Utsav with raga Miyan ki Malhar on the inaugural day. Carnatic music was represented by a melodious flute recital by G.S. Rajan.The monsoon mood at the two-day Malhar Utsav presented by the ICCR at Azad Bhavan took off with the melodious thumri in Mishra Tilak Kamod by the versatile vocalist Malashri Prasad, who also sang some lilting kajaris and jhoolas. Shubhendra Rao's sitar next evening unfolded raga Miyan-Malhar with a detailed aalap-jod followed by compositions in Des-Malhar. Kamal Sabri's sonorous sarangi revealed the majesty of Megh, followed by compositions in a variety of Malhars, like Miyan Malhar, Nat-Malhar and Soor-Malhar, to name a few.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/03/stories/2010090350360200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/03/images/2010090350360201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVersatile Shubhendru Rao.
p14
ss.