(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe lyrical  conversation
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt is not often that geniuses comes together. Especially to create music. And that too for a second time. The new musical treat from Gulzar and Jagjit SinghKoi Baat Chale(KBC) is an event in itself. After the phenomenal success ofMarasimseven years ago, the new collection is aptly titledKoi Baat Chale(Let's commence a conversation)."Poetry has many forms. The interesting aspect of ghazals is that they are sung," explains Gulzar. Gulzar sees this album as a part of the legacy of masters like Mirza Ghalib. His passion for Ghalib had even inspired a memorable television series. He recalls: "My association with Jagjit Singh began with the TV serial on Ghalib. Not only in a commercial sense, but also as an important stage in the evolution of this unique creative synergy in Indian music."Koi Baat Chaleis another phase of this partnership. "Jagjit, I believe, is one of the best exponents of the ghazal," adds Gulzar.A new poetic device &#151;  Triveni &#151;  a three-lined form, is sung for the first time in this album. "An effort of thirty years, it is a new experimentation and invention in Urdu poetry," he confessed. "It is similar to Haiku, but also resonates Punjabi folk music forms and varieties." The third line of the triplet often changes the meaning of the first two lines. "It's a free verse, but it keeps a metre.""Ghazals call for a particular temperament. Many good singers can't sing ghazals," Gulzar pointed out the rationale of the partnership. Recalling the legendary Mehdi Hassan, he says: "He has an ethereal voice. I would put Jagjit Singh in the same league. ' Gulzar feels that film music is distinct. "The medium of films has its own demands. Each character has a language. All these are limitations." Never the one to compromise on aesthetics to cater to the popular taste, the lyricist said: "You are talking on behalf of these characters. But even in commercial cinema, I have tried to develop a new vocabulary and imagery for popular music. But outside films, you get to know how one is treated by life &#151;  the brushes, bruises, and splashes in life." It seemed as if he spoke for the duo.True poetry and music is essentially political, asserts Gulzar. "We are living in a political situation with its own limitations. As a poet, you are keeping the conscience of your own times." Ghazals for them are indeed political. "It reflects me &#151;  how do I look at society, the social values around me." Reflecting on their unique chemistry, Jagjit Singh added: "Gulzar saab and my rapport duringMarasimhas grown into something truly outstanding inKoi Baat Chale.His way of thinking and expressing his poetry is unique. There is always a new twist in his poetry and is sometimes difficult to compose tunes for it. "Koi Baat Chaleis full of poetic innovations. In the ghazal " Kya Batayen Ki Jaan Gayi Kaise" Gulzar experiments with images and makes them contemporary.It succeeds in bringing about a new concept and orientation to the form and content of ghazals.SANJAY KUMARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/03/stories/2006110301630300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/03/images/2006110301630301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLET'S TALK  Koi Baat Chale brings about a creative synergy between two greats yet again  &#151;  Gulzar and Jagjit Singh
p14
ss.