(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAbundant display of talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe Annual Youth Festival of Music conducted by Kalasagaram is significant because it is the inaugural programme in an artiste's career. The leading singers of the day, like Sanjay Subramaniam, T.M. Krishna indeed started their career with initial performances in these annuals way back in time.The first concert of the three-day festival was by Vidya Kalyanaraman. A girl in her teens, she is amazingly competent and is well on her way to be a good professional. She has a pleasant voice that can obey her imagination although it might take some more time to gain depth. There is, as is common with the contemporary singers, a little haste that will soon settle down. A speedyvarnaminnaataiand a quick rendering ofragasudhainarabhiset the stage, which had an overdose ofswarakalpana.Thekrithi, eti janmamidirainvaralibrought in peace and the song was rendered with needed emotion,bhavaand rightkalapramanam. The itemhiranmayiof Dikshithar inlalithawas even more captivating. Perfection is not to be expected at this stage but if judged by what she worked there is good reason to believe, that she will bring her skill to as near to perfection. If Gokul on the violin was good enough, the mridangam accompaniment by Sriram needed greater application.Praveena, the winner of this year's tambura prize, has a vibrant voice and is well up in her competence; some more experience in planning a concert is what is needed; this is particularly needed in terms of selection and also design. Thekedaragowla varnamstarted off well but the rest of the items and their distribution, both in terms of placement and performance, lacked purpose. Thekrithi, yennganu ramabhajana in pantuvarali,needed imagination, true pictures of melody and right perception of the lyric. That was the right piece that needed elaboratealapanaand application (vyvaharam) ofmanodharma.Ritigowla (ragarathna malika), which she chose instead, did not have the needed depth. Yet again in her chief item,kiravanithat was chosen for RTP there was confusion in the portrayal of the raga (alapana) in the sense, it was quite often mixed up withsimhendramadhyamam.The distinctiveswara,madhyamam, should be rightly projected as that is the elemental difference; she innocently committed this mistake quite often. Thepallaviset toadi tala (khanda nadai) lacked depth and thethanam, far below standards. Amongst the other items, thesangathisfor the song,Sri Mathrubhutamhad unconventional steps, which did not bring out the ragabhavaofkannada. Dinakar on the violin was exceedingly confident and communicative. But he was too vociferous, perhaps due to the inadequacy of the sound system. Burra Sriram on the mridangam was sober and supportive.Greater expectationsIt was a concert with a difference. Smitha Madhav's vocal concert on the final day was an event where expectations were frustrated but substituted by fascinating surprises with a mixed sensation of delight and despair. It was essentially amadhyamakalaformat where some amount of haste was clearly visible; in hasty piece of music there is no great merit; it's lot of aroma sans tang. The configuration was inclusion of items and ragas quite uncommon, an approach that can be called a little coarse; it was yet a banquet to the common listener.The rich voice, astuteness and courage vehemently and strongly held the edifice. Either by vanity or wantonness, by compliance with fashion or lust of innovation, the layout was out of the ordinary; she has that bustling confidence, and animated ambition. In the façade ofmanodharma, the ragaalapanawas rather perfunctory with few creative ideas. In the discipline ofswarakalpana, it is amazingly fluent and eloquent, but it lacks pattern.The richly calculated and rehearsedthrimanamswere nerve-racking, some of them running to 12avarthas!  Thevarnaminmandarifollowed byninne bhajanainnnaataibuilt up the needed tempo. If thechittaswaras(sulfa syllables) in the song includedsashtruti daivatham, it was deliberately omitted inswarakalpana. The other ragas wereurmikaandrevagupthi. Much time was devoted to the ragadharmavathi, which followed the main itemkamboji (sri Subramanyaya namasthe). Dwaram Sathyanarayana a renowned violinist added glamour, while Jaya Bhaskar (mridangam and Shyam Kumar ( kanjira) added lustre to the concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/02/stories/2007030201180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/02/images/2007030201180302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSmitha Madhav.
p14
ss.