(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStriking recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VListening to Dr. Jyotsna's violin concert was a source of unabated joy. The integrated nature of the melodies was the most eloquent aspect of her exposition.Her recital at Sri Ramakrishna Udyanavana, Girinagar, was held in connection with the release of a CDNaada Sukham &#151;  Melodic Blissby veteran mridangist A. V. Anand and well known connoisseur of art K. N. Venkatanarayana under the auspices of Shruthi Sindhura Academy of Music led by the mridangist K.V. Ravishankar Sharma and scholar Pandit K.S. Venkatadri Sharma. Conceived, composed and directed by young artistes Ravishankar Sharma, N. Amrith and Dr. Jyotsna, it ensures a confluence of melody and rhythm. The beauty of various laya patterns is captured by using different musical instruments.Guided by a powerful rhythmic support by Ravishankar Sharma (mridanga), Amrith (khanjari), Giridhar Udupa (ghata) and Prasanna Kumar (rhythm pad/morsing), the rendition of Thyagaraja's "Shobhillu saptaswara" (Jaganmohini) with chittaiswaras, neraval ("Dhararutsama") and kalpanaswaras was purely enjoyable since there was no air of pretension or assumed posture in it. The presentation of Bahudari, in detail, led us rather invisibly into the natural swaying lap of punctuated alapana, krithi rendition, neraval and swaravinyasa, whose real craft and sequence brought out the best of not only Jyotsna but also all the other percussionists who carried out a well knit and rounded off laya vinyasa that followed the krithi rendition.Controlled bowing, neat fingering-technique, matching manodharmas and talents and a good understanding paid off rich dividends when violinist-brothers Rahul and Rohith gave a creditable account of their artistry in their short and succinct duet performance for Sri Rama Seva Mandali, Fort High School, during the Sri Ramanavami music festival.Trained by critic-violinist N. Venkatesh, the brothers tackled the concert exquisitely well. Each note appeared to be an extension of the earlier one and lead on to the next one through ensnaring elliptical tonal movements.They set out with "Siddhi Vinayakam" (Mohana Kalyani), "Rama Bhakti" (Shuddha Bangala) in right earnest. The budding violinists unleashed a volley of robust swaras, highly intricate rhythms in an expansive Simhendramadhyama for "Ninne nammitinayya" appended with a ragamalika swaraprastara and krithis in Bindumalini, Malavi, Dwijavanthi, Darbari Kaanada, and Kapi ragas.The majestic Madhyamavathi ("Ramakatha sudharasa") and the concluding Dhanasri tillana provided a crisp finale to the concert in which ASN Swamy (mridanga) and Srishyla (ghata) proved to be strong collaborators.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060202710300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/02/images/2006060202710301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VWELL TRAINED Rahul and Rohit gave a creditable performance
p14
ss.