(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBreath of fresh air
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe music in this album acts as a charm to soothe the mind.This album is a breath of fresh air in an otherwise overcrowded devotional music room. What makes `Nandagopalam' different is the manner in which the usual devotional lyrics have been treated. Instead of routine orchestration and songs by well-known playback singers, which often make albums in this genre sound  alike, this one stands out for its innovative treatment.All the songs have been given a `Kathakali touch.' And for this the producers, Krishna Digital, have chosen professional singers, percussionists and even a lyricist from the Kathakali fraternity. Kalamandalam Manoj, an experienced actor, turns lyricist in this album. He, along with, Chowallur Krishnankutty, a veteran in this field, have churned out simple, straightforward, lyrical lines."We knew that Manoj had the talent.  When we embarked on this project, as an offering to the Sree Krishna Temple at Thodupuzha, we decided it would not be a run-of-the-mill  album. That was when we zoomed in on Manoj and two gifted singers, Kalamandalam Jayaprakash and Nedumballi Ram Mohan. A bit of research on the ragas to be chosen and the suitable background score was done with the help of our coordinator G.K. Irinjalakuda," says P.P. Rajeev, who has produced and composed the background score for the songs.What creates the mood is the artistic and sensitive use of music instruments. The vocals intertwine with the chenda (Kalabharathi Unnikrishnan), maddalam (Raj Narayan and edakka (Tripunithura Krishnadas) to form inspiring music. There are seven soothing, tranquil padams, including the opening sloka set in chaste Kedargowla, Surutti, Sindhubhairavi, Sreeragam, Kaapi, Thodi and Bhagesri. And to top it there is a ragamalika that is a delightful combination of Neelambari, Desh and Valachi.The music in this album evokes images, perhaps of the Kathakali actors swaying rhythmically to the tunes  or act as a charm to soothe the mind.This is a definitive addition to this growing genre of music.Nandagopalam'Krishna DigitalKalamandalam Jayaprakash and Nedumballi Ram Mohan (Rs. 60)NandagopalamKrishna Digital Kalamandalam Jayaprakash and Nedumballi Ram Mohan (Rs. 60).K. PRADEEPBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/17/stories/2006111700380200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/17/images/2006111700380201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.