(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTo guru with love
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.N. Balasubramaniam (popular as G.N.B) had influenced many musician with his refreshingly different music and unique ideas. He mesmerised the old and the young with his fluid and voice, effortlessness of expression and explorative approach to raga alapanas. Son of the renowned musician G.V. Narayanaswamy, GNB acted in early Tamil films and played lead role of Dushyanta opposite M.S. Subbulakshmi who played Sakuntala. He invented many new ragas. He taught a number of disciples during his active years among whom Trichur V. Ramachandran was one. This veteran vocalist presented a concert to mark the centenary celebrations of his guru GNB, organised by South Indian Cultural Association at Ravindra Bharati recently. Ramachandran was in company of A. Sunderesan on violin, Umalyapuram Mali on mridangam and N. Rajaraman on ghatam.Ramachandran expressed his happiness for this opportunity given by SICA to pay tributes to his guru through his concert. He filled the repertoire with GNB's numbers, half of them were in Sanskrit. There were other Sanskrit numbers too of other composers. The Hindola varnam (Sakalakala vani), he opened his concert with, was of GNB. Ramachandran presented it in two speeds and set his tone, shruti and mood in the process. Sanskrit compositions dominated the repertoire.Karivaradam Maam Palaya with good swaraprasthara was a Sanskrit number of GNB. Sundaratara Deham, Ramam in Kamavardhani, a rarely rendered number of Thyagaraja dominated the initial part of the show. The raga essay was concise and sweet. He presented a brief neraval but an expansive swarakalpana. The swaraprasthara part had brisk stages when he sang to mridangam support, with responses from the violinist and ghatam artiste. There was Chandrahasini GNB's own raga for the kriti .Entani Ninnu Vedithine was a simple kirtana rendered by him. GNB's another composition in Tamil figured in the raga Bahudhari with good swarakalpana as its annexure. Thyagaraja's popular Andolika number Ragasudha was a brilliant and expressive rendition of Ramachandran. He informed that it was popularised by his guru GNB. He then went on to render another number that GNB composed in Natakuranji adding c hittaswaram and swarasahityam. Amba Naakabhayavaramichi was the pallavi of the kriti. Ranjani Niranjani was another composition of GNB, rendered well by Ramachandran with good swarakalpana.Kalyani was the highlight and major show piece of Ramachandran's show. He rendered Dikshitar's Kamalambam Bhajare, a Navavarna kirtana. Raga was presented in good detail but the swaraprasthara part dominated the presentation. The Tani avartanam by percussionists was compact and interesting.S.Chakravarthi, president of SICA paid rich tributes to GNB and then gave a brief sketch of that legendary musician's life and contribution to music.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/11/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/11/27/stories/2009112750430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/11/27/images/2009112750430301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHis master's voice T. Ramachandran performing in the city                                                     Photo: G.Krishnaswamy
p14
ss.