(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn the name of the legend
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 100th Jayanthi of late Dwaram Narasinga Rao Naidu, the renowned violinist and an ideal guru from whom celebrity vidwans like Nedunuri Krishna Murthy, Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Ivaturi Vejayeswara Rao and several others received their initial training at M.R.Government Music College, Vizianagaram, was celebrated by Swarajhari Sabha in a befitting manner at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika, Vijayawada.Narasinga Rao Naidu&#8217;s sons and daughters, Dwaram Durgaprasada Rao, Dwaram Satyanarayana and Poosarla Manorama are also reputed violinsts. After the demise of legendary Dwaram Venkataswami Naidu, Narasinga rao Naidu who was a disciple of his father Venkatakrishniah Naidu and Venkataswamy Naidu, took over as the principal of the Vizianagaram music college and trained a large number of disciples like K.V.Reddy, Vijayeswara Rao, Ampolu Muralikrishna, K. Jaganmohan Rao and many others. Narasinga Rao Naidu introduced several special techniques in using the bow. He was known for his gentlemanly disposition and warmth towards his disciples.The function was chaired by scholar and president of Swarajhari, T.S. Ramachandra Rao. Industrialist Gokaraju Gangaraju and Vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswamy were honorary guests. Preceding the function was a melodious violin concert by K.V. Reddy, a senior disciple of Dwaram Narasingarao Naidu. K.V.Reddy dedicated his concert to his guru. During his long tenure as violin lecturer in Vizianagaram and Vijayawada Music Colleges, K.V. Reddy produced many disciples and the prominent among were Ampolu Muralikrishna, Tampella Suryanarayana, N. Meenakshi and V.V.L. Narasimha Rao. It is a known fact that K.V.Reddy&#8217;s efforts led to the construction of the Vijayawada Music College premises.In his solo rendition, Reddy played a number of keertanas that includedSri Gananadham(Eesa Manohari),Manaviyalakimpa(Nalinakanthi),Anadhudanu ganu(Zingla) andBrovabharama(Bahudari). The main itemEtavunarain Kalyani was played with fine alapana and kalpana swaras. Reddy had escellent support from N.Ch. Butchiacharyulu on the second violin and M.L.N. Raju on mridangam. The concert closed withMadhuranagarilo(Ananda Bhairavi) and a scintillating western tune.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/11/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/11/14/stories/2008111450260200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/11/14/images/2008111450260201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRemembering DwaramK.V. Reddy in concert
p14
ss.