(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRagas unfold with poignant flavour
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANA strong voice and the ability to view melodic intricacies from a wide perspective were the advantages that Ushalakshmi Krishnamurthy, disciple of T.R.Subranmaniam, made the most of in her recital at the Ramana Kendra.Ushalakshmi's Subhapantuvarali alapana abounded with aesthetics of a subtle nature highlighted by flowing glides with a view to bringing out the poignant flavour of the raga without lapsing into the maudlin. The violinist's version was a hurried exercise that set great store by technique rather than bhava.Tyagaraja's "Ennalu" (misra chapu) came in for detailed treatment with kizh and melkala neraval and kalpanaswaras at "Sati Maata," the melkala swaras fitted with poruttams and calculations in apt measure.The rarely heard Muthaiah Bhagavathar kirtana, "Saravanabhava'' in raga Pasupathipriya with its invigorating chittaswara emerged crisp as a newly minted note. In the main raga, Bhairavi, fortified by a solid bulwark of traditional pidis, sancharas progressed to a prolonged halt at the tara sthyai shadja to generate vibrant passages.The viruttam, "Annamalaiyaai" was a prelude to the kriti, "Namo Ramanaayave'' in praise of Bhagavan Sri Ramana.Shertalai Sivakumar on the violin responded with enthusiasm during the swara sallies while Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar (mridangam) and H. Sivaramakrishnan (ghatam) unleashed a deft interplay of rhythms in their tani.Firm grasp of essentialsIn her vocal concert for Sri Thiagaraja Sangeetha Vidwath Samajam,  Anuradha Santhanam, disciple of Udipi Gopalakrishnan and Bhushani Kalyanaraman, exhibited a firm grasp of essentials. Swaraprasthara flowed easy and free for the Arabhi kriti, "Naadasudha Rasa." The artiste being hampered by a sore throat, Bhairavi was not the easiest of choices. Undeterred, Anuradha tackled the steep uphill climb with aplomb, relying upon diligent groundwork and preparation to construct a sturdy framework buttressed with definitive sancharas in the madhya sthayi. Her choice of kriti was "Lalithe'' from Tyagaraja's Lalgudi Pancharatnam, its smooth progress occasionally deflected by shaky kalapramana during the anupallavi and charanam wherein the closely-knit sangatis require greater breath control to ensure an uninterrupted flow. The kalpanaswaras at "Kannathalli'' were steered to a satisfactory conclusion."Mokshamugalada'' (Saramathi) was handled with due respect for its bhava laden structure. The Sankarabharanam alapana displayed a well-ordered approach with the emphasis on gamaka &#151;  replete phrasing, although voice strain was evident. "Manasuswadhinamaina'' (misra chapu) was followed up with extensive neraval and solfa chains.Kovai Chandran (violin) and Madurai B. Sundar (mridangam) rendered accompaniment with finesse and sensitivity.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/12/stories/2006051202530600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/12/images/2006051202530602.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAnuradha
p14
ss.