(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMesmerising concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VShanmukha Priya and Haripriya, popularly known as &#8216;Priya Sisters', figured in the Annual music festival organized by Chandrasekharendra Sangetha Educational Society at Keyes High School, Secunderabad. M.A.Krishnaswamy on violin, T.Phalgun on mridangam, Purushotham on Kanjira lent support to the pair.The pleasing presence of the sisters displaying charged spirits and confidence created an atmosphere for a promising concert and that was what they did at the end. But after some initial efforts by the sisters to get the mikes tuned well the programme went on blissfully, earning appreciation of the audience, intermittently.The repertoire was a mix of popular and rare ones giving some food for thought. They did explain what varnam they sang in; raga Behag as that of guru T.R.Subramnainyam, a two speed swarakalpana. But some rare compositions like Gananayadesika in Rishabhapriya would have been greatly enjoyed, if it was prefaced with a bit of explanation of its curious structure. It was of Kotiswara Iyer. The sahitya was interesting as it was composed of swara names that composed the raga, also formed the text of the kriti. Indeed it was a brillaint piece of Kotiswara Iyer with impressive alapana and swarakalpana and a pleasant finish.Gajavadana was the invocation of Papanasam Sivan set in Sriranjanai, which had element of devotion. Janaki Ramana of Thyagaraja a popular Suddhaseemantini number, a gene of Thodi, was neatly presented by the sisters. Tempo built up with the choice rendition of Shyama Sastry's O Jagadamba in Anandabhairavi. Shanmukha Priya's exposition of the raga Ananda Bhairavi was a commendable effort. Muthaiah Bhagavatar's kriti Vanchatonu Amba in Karnaranjani was their choice for presentation. There was also &#8216;Kanjadalayatakshi' in Kamalamanohari, before they took up O Rangasai of Thyagaraja in Kambhoji as their show piece of the concert. The sisters dealt with the raga in absolute detail, with well structured phrases as the raga moved from one octave to another.The sahitya part was well expounded in vocal expression. The nereval that they presented later too accentuated its beauty. The swaraprasthara done by both was an imaginative exercise. Krishna Swamy's violin support with good sense of proportion elevated the concerts appeal. Phalgun's Tani Avartanam was masterly. He followed at every stage with caution and right sound levels.The sisters surprised us by rendering the verses of Vemana rendering it their end part presentation of the concert. Of course, the verses were infused with principles of life.A composition of Annamacharya Ekkadi Manusha Janmamu in Bowli was well received.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550310200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550310201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical Duo Priya Sisters performing at the concert.
p14
ss.