(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSmooth rendition sans gimmicks
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIVeteran singer Sugandha Kalamegham gave a pleasing recital at Nani Palkhiwala auditorium, under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts, Coimbatore. The singer and the listener felt comfortable, as there were no ostentations or gimmicks to impress or please. `Sowkya Bhavam' reigned supreme  throughout. Commencing the concert with the Kalyani varnam (Ata talam-pallavi, Gopala Iyer) Sugandha sailed smoothly with her honeyed voice and an ease born out of rich experience.The swaras that poured forth while she sang "Deva Deva Kalayaami'' (Mayamalavagowla, Swati Tirunal) raised the expectations of the audience that was more than fulfilled by the time the concert ended. Intricate phrases appeared absolutely simple while she sang. She breezed through the higher and lower octaves effortlessly as she depicted Purvikalyani giving it a silky finish.Dignified presentation"Enneramum Un Naamam Uraippathu En Nemam'' (a rare kriti in Tamil by Syama Sastri) was presented with beauty and dignity. With innovative delineation, she filled the hall with the tender magnificence of Todi and followed it up with "Kadhanu Vaariki'' (Tyagaraja). "Chinna Naate Naa'' (Kalanidhi, Tyagaraja), "Santhana Ramaswaminam'' (Hindola Vasantham, Dikshitar), "Ambara Chidhambara Paraapara Sadhaanandhame'' (Surutti, Muthu Thandavar) and "Nekkurugi Unnaippaniyaa Kalnenjan'' (Abhogi, Papanasam Sivan) were presented with excellent diction and appropriate emotion. The ugabhoga, "Deena Naanu, Samastha Lokakke Daani Neenu'' was full of Karuna rasa and "Ranganaathana Noduve Banniri,'' the Dasara pada that followed, instilled devotion.Towards the end, Sugandha sang the bhajan, "Beeth Gaye Din Bhajana Bina Re'' by Kabirdas, "Irakkam Varaamal Ponathenna Kaaranam" and a tillana in Khamas. Violin by Akkarai Subhalakshmi was immensely enjoyable. J. Vaidhyanathan (mridangam) and N. Guruprasad (ghatam) were at their best, enjoying themselves thoroughly, spreading cheer throughout the concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/16/stories/2006061600220300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/16/images/2006061600220301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSugandha Kalamegham.
p14
ss.