(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPrefers to shock and startle
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKT. N. Seshagopalan has majestic voice, tonal depth, awesome manodharma, typhoonic exposition, vidwat at his command and laya at his fingertips. Only one thing generally is missing in the list  -   RESTRAINT in capital letters. Rarely are his concerts mild-mannered. The one he presented  for the Krishna Gana Sabha was not.Every note in his alapana and rendition of songs spoke of his commitment to ostentatious flaunting.  Seshagopalan's style is to shock and startle.While most of the items of alapana and the selection of songs were driven by punch-packed tempo and rattling sancharas, there were two exceptions  -   Saveri alapana and the song ``Sri Rajagopala" and Yadukulakambhoji with the kirtana "Ninnu-Sevinchi."Not that he was unaware of this kind of value-music, but deliberately plumped for the razzle-dazzle route.The Yadukulakambhoji alapana explored every inch of its exceptional reverie. The startling part was the Varali Pancharatna in the middle of the concert.His handling of the sancharas and sangatis in songs was impeccably imperious as he sang the Abheri song, "Nagumomu." The alapana was a clever mix of acrobatics and the raga's aesthetics.M. Chandrasekharan, violinist, was in a challenging mood in his repartees. B. Harikumar (mridangam) and V. Anirudh Atreya (kanjira) played with brimming enthusiastic abandon. It looked like a tani avartanam all the time.Good veena music is an ascent from the usual jingle-jangle to gamaka subtlety. It calls for a gradual subordination of beat technique. Many vainikas are insensitive to this finer aspect.Depth and eleganceP. Vasantkumar, playing for Krishna Gana Sabha, moved away from this popular pursuit and presented the kutcheri with the mingling of classical depth and veena elegance.That each raga has its distinctive characteristic gamaka base was to be seen in his alapanas of Bhairavi (ragam, tanam and pallavi in Roopaka tala) and in the brief sketches of Atana ("Sri Mahaganapathim" of Mysore Maharaja) and Gowla (Sri Mahaganapathy-avatu-maam of Muthuswamy Dikshitar). As regards talas Vasanthkumar brought variety with Adi, kanta chapu and misra chapu and the tisra nadai adi tala in rendering the song "Narada Muni" (Pantuvarali). His objective was very clear &#151;  to bring out the dignity and grace of veena music with imagistic brevity and vividness.Thanjavur Subramaniam on the mridangam and Guruprasad (ghatam) extended laya support keeping in view the gentle ebb and flow of Vasantkumar's exposition.DVD launchA DVD on Vellore Ramabhadran, titled "Sarvalaghu mridangam" was launched. Speakers at the function  -   Mr. N. Ram, Editor-in-Chief,The Hindu, Mr. R. Venugopal and Mr. V. V. Srivatsa spoke of the soft sarvalaghu motivation of Vellore Ramabhadran's play. They highlighted the distinct characteristics of Ramabhadran's role as an accompanist.They also explained how modern technology has enabled Carnatic music to cross the oceans. The DVD has been produced by Mr. D.V. Subramanyam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/16/stories/2005091602890300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/09/16/images/2005091602890302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VP. Vasanthkumar.
p14
ss.