(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe best in the series
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe concerts arranged by Chandrasekarendera Sangeetha Educational Society (CSES) in the annual season were perhaps the best in the series and conceivably the most enjoyed. The artistes included the seniors and the younger, and each one of them performed exquisitely. The concerts were largely attended and the arrangements were admirable.Sikkil Sisters Kunjumani and Neela and the offspring Mala, form a celebrated company of flute players. The sisters cautiously protect the values of tradition and are not influenced by popular relish. Ritigowla varnam was a rare item that was followed byVinayakain Hamsadwani. The krithi,Orajupujuchediin Kannada gowla,Dorakunain Bilahari with an attractive prelude ofalapanamade a mark. It was in Kharaharapriya the team got together and made the item a tasty recipe. M.A. Krishnaswamy played on the violin with verve. The other feature which proved memorable was the playing on the mridangam by Satish Kumar; the support of Somayjulu on the ghatam added aroma.The concert of Priya Sisters (Haripriya and Shanmukhapriya) took a u-turn this time. It was not the fervent obsession of gaudery; there was poise. Where there used to be dynamism, there was restrain; in place of gallantry, there was dignity and polish.The raga Subha Panthuvarali was the highlight of the concert and got the respect and reverence it warranted; the notegandharawas rightly placed at the pedestal. In the songEti jalmamidira, the intensity of imagination, a depth of feeling, and idealist devotion, strong enough to welcome the soul, spread through the auditorium.Genius lies not in just conceiving new ideas but in developing the thought with eloquence and concluding fecundity; this is the brand name of duet singers Malladi Brothers. The cheerfulness and vivacity of youth is linked with a full blooded performance.  Gifted with a voice which is forceful yet yielding to their will, it makes a magnificent impact and blends exceptionally well. While their work speaks of a comprehensively satisfying flaunt, theirmanodarma(creative) music has an edge over the rest.  M.A. Krishnaswamy on the violin was at ease and faithfully supported the singers. M.L.N. Raju on the mridangam is a seasoned artiste; he is well conversant with thebaniof the Brothers and the concert therefore, gained a unique flavour of rhythm.Teeming crowd, horrendous and vociferous volume of applause, sporadic but stony silence greeted the mandolin maestro U. Srinivas. It is not the instrument or the music that has won the bout; it is the exciting mastery and skill of Srinivas over the instrument that has created the novelty; under these circumstances music keeps itself at a distance.The concert included mostly fast moving items and too often, the speed was, by design enhanced; with the percussion joining in the show, the entire event became a jamboree. Even a relatively slow moving item likeMarubalkain Sriranjani was pushed into the race and the innocent crowed asked for more such hysterics.Loganatha Sharma, a disciple of Chittor Subramania Pillai (CSP) reminds of the music of yesteryears. CSP was a doyen of percussion ensemble. His format had an inbuilt structure wherevishranti(intermission) was the maxim; the percussion ensemble in full strength contributed ecstasy to fill in this pause; in the process, music moved leisurely with added depth as well as strength. The concert on the day was of the same format but devoid of the thrilling frills of rhythm. Sure enough it left an unusual but painful and poignant vacuum. His passionate desire to convey the true meaning of the lyric in several items also remotely simulated narration of the lyric like the episodes of katha kaalksehpam; there was some melodrama too. This approach, however well intended, drives the common listener to tedium of sorts. Thrill decidedly takes a back seat and grammar becomes extraneous; music nose-dives. In his selection, he gave a different orientation to the Pancharathna,Sadhinchenein Arabhi;Enthanamminanuin Saveri was a treasure from the archives. Sarasasamadana was uncovered in all its colours. Ranjani made the concert complete. Dinakar on the violin and Arvind on the mridangam were composed.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/15/stories/2008021550720300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.