(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRevolutionary singer
p3
sVnews
p4
VWith a euphoric and emotive voice that would create a stir in the sub-continent, she sang Ghalib , Hafiz and others.Hazaron saal nargis apni benoori pe roti haiBadi mushkil se hota hai chaman mein didavar paeda(For thousands of years Nargis cries on her ordinary looksIt is with difficulty that an admirer is born in the garden)An individual&#8217;s existence within society necessitates relationships, and in Iqbal Bano&#8217;s life, relationships existed only in a state of great primacy. Iqbal Bano was fortunate to have harmonious relationships with her father and her feuda\u000al husband &#8212; experiences that have extended into her manner of relating her music to society and the nation. With her passing away on April 21 in Pakistan, the world has lost not only a great voice but a ghazal singer whose creative endeavours categorised her as an artistic and revolutionary intellectual.Iqbal Bano was born in India and sang frequently on All India Radio until the partition in 1952, when she migrated to Pakistan. With a euphoric and emotive voice that would create a stir in the sub-continent, she sang Ghalib , Hafiz and others; however, she rediscovered her relationship with the cosmos when she brought to life the poetry of Faiz Ahmed Faiz &#8212; a climactic moment that arrived in 1985. Against the backdrop of a year engulfed in the cold regime of Zia ul Huq,  Iqbal Bano, clad in a sari  rediscovered herself in the poem,&#8220;Hum dekhenge lazim hai ke ham bhi dekhenge&#8221;(Yes we shall see, most certainly we shall see.)The poem immortalised Faiz and offered commentary on the chaotic state of the nation.  In the poem, Iqbal Bano realised that the fundamental problem of mankind remained the same as it has always been, the only exception being that while primitive man used arrows, modern man uses nuclear war heads, and that while in primitive times fewer people were killed, now millions are exterminated. Because of the impending catastrophe, society was in desperate need of a qualitative change.Iqbal Bano created a persona, an expression of herself on her own terms, for herself. She became a part of a larger picture. She was never on the outside as a mere observer, unrelated and alienated, but an active participant in the process. Another song goes like this:Ulfat ki nayee manzil ko chala, who bahein daal ke bahon mein,Dil todne wale dekh ke chal hum bhi tao pade hain rahon mein(He is heading towards a new relationship, arm in armBefore breaking my heart pause and see that I too exist)Bano brought to life the poetry of Qateel Shifai to imply that creativity and self-expression require each one of us to be sensitive on all fronts, and her rendition, itself, was an expression of this sensitivity. Applauded and admired, Iqbal Bano carried thousands in her wake when she sang &#8220;Dashte tanhai mein.&#8221; It was like a return to mysticism and metaphysics; there was something inside her, something unique, that would create communion and thereby she became universal. Her renditions all are artistic statements to this effect.Awwaz ke jaadu ne har saaz ko loota hai.The magic in her voice has enthralled all and has  explored every genre of music. While she used poetry to weave a veritable veil to unmask realities, the authenticity in her voice tore aside the veil and flung it afar.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/06/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/06/12/stories/2009061251280400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.