(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA musical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VNisha Rajgopal,  another up-and-coming artiste with a melodious voice and richsruthistarted with kaanada atatalam . She chose kaanada as the main item and sang RTP set to Khandajhathi triputatalam. Dwaram Satyanarayana from Hyderabad did well and he compensated with his violin support. Aravind supported the artiste on mridangam.Akkarai Sisters from Chennai presented a violin duet during the fest. The sisters have accompanied many stalwarts in the field and have proved to be good solo performers too. The concert took off in a steady tempo with KhambhojiAtatalam Varnam.Swaminathain Natai was good with briefswarakalpana. Then they followed it with Keeravani and Subbalakshmi played it neatly.Charu kesiwas aesthetically essayed andAada modi galadawas rendered in an elegant way with a soothingswarakalpana. Ananda Bhairavi was a right choice andMariveriof Syamasastry was rendered in an excellentkalapramanabringing out theragabeauty. Lathangi, theprathimadyamathough presented last was rendered in a knowledgeable way. Kapi was the main attraction and the sisters did well in bringing theraganuances and Thyagaraja&#8217;sIntha Sowkhyamuin Adi talam was thekritiwith good permutations.D.S.R. Murthy, an established vidwan from Hyderabad on mridangam was very impressive. His accompaniment lifted the concert.Malladi Brothers are the  sought-after artistes and they  make it a point to introduce at least a new item of Thyagaraja in their concerts. They began their recital with Kambhoji Adi talavarnamwhich set the tempo of the concert.Gowri Sukumari,a N.Ch. Krishnamacharya composition was neatly rendered with impressiveswarakalpana. Vakulabharanamu was brilliantly rendered and Thyagaraja&#8217;s rare compositionA Ramuni NammithivoNadachi Nadachiof Thyagaraja which they popularised in their concerts came out excellently. Theirneravalshowed their command and theswarakalpanashowed their perfection. Kannan on violin was brilliant all through the concert. Naryanan, a seasoned mridangam player from Chennai was good in his accompaniment. Histaniin Adi was neat.Sowmya, another seasoned performer from Chennai gave a good concert.  She started with Saverivarnamand Janaki Ramana in Suddabangala with complexswarakalpanawas good. The concert picked up momentum with Harikhambhojiragamand she managed it well to bring theragam bhavamas it is complex to sing with otherragasclose to it.Chanithodiof Thyagaraja, a rare one was neatly done with complexswaram.Maramananin Hindolam was good. Mukhari came in the right place and Sowmya did well in herragamkeeping intact the classicalsangathis.Thyagaraja&#8217;sEnthani nepogaduwas decently rendered withneravalat its best.Kannan was on  violin and Narayanan on the mridangam did their jobs well.  Finally, she concluded with ajavali,abhajanin Pelu. The concert on the whole was planned and executed well.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/02/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/02/06/stories/2009020650380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/02/06/images/2009020650380301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSinging complex ragas Nisha Rajgopal; Sowmya.
p14
ss.