(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVeterans young and old
p3
sVnews
p4
VTwenty years ago, speaking in a morning panel discussion,  M.L.Vasanthakumari confessed that the younger musicians   had a much higher IQ and far wider sources of inspiration than the older ones. Making a specific reference to a couple of outstanding youngsters, she described the music of gottuvadyam-player Ravikiran&#8217;s music as traditional, and that of the mandolin artist U. Shrinivas as a revolution.But the difference was only in their choice of the native and alien instruments and their distinct styles of performance. In outlook and spirit, both of them were as traditional as they were modern, as they continue to be even today.That Ravikiran&#8217;s style of playing his classical Indian instrument (now called chitravina) is steeped in the orthodox Carnatic tradition needs no explanation, even if we are talking about its modified flat version which he finds easier to carry around the world and which somehow retains all the essential acoustic qualities of the original instrument. But preserving the basic character of Carnatic music when playing the unfamiliar mandolin is the mystic charm of Shrinivas.  One had naturally expected to witness a striking contrast in styles when Ravikiran and Shrinivas performed in quick succession at Hamsadhwani.  But things didn&#8217;t turn out that way because the mandolin was unusually subdued, sounding rather conventionally tranquil in spite of Tiruvarur Bhakthavatsalam&#8217;s vigorous mridangam. And Ravikiran&#8217;s chitravina was as subtle and meditative as ever, anchored by the smooth and silky touch of the venerable mridangam maestro Vellore Ramabhadran.The highlights of the concerts were an exquisite rendering of Ritigowla by Shrinivas, and a glowing exposition of Kalyani by Ravikiran.Two elder veterans who happened to perform together at Hamsadhwani last week were flute master Ramani and his mridangam accompanist Guruvayur Dorai.There used to be a time long ago when the sound of the Carnatic flute used to radiate constantly all over South India in frequent radio broadcasts. It can produce every subtle inflection which the human voice can. And it can shower bright clusters of colourful sounds as in the case of the legendary past master Mali, or just let the music flow in a calm and serene stream as it does in the hands of Ramani.In the concert under review, Ramani performed in his own usual style and let the audience also relax. His rendering of Anandabhairavi and Mohanam were particularly pleasing.One doesn&#8217;t normally see veteran Carnatic musicians attending one another&#8217;s performances, except as a special guest to participate in some related function. So it was refreshing to find a very senior vidwan sitting inconspicuously among the admiring audience in Ravikiran&#8217;s concert and apparently relishing the restful music. This was none other than the many-sided maestro T.V.Gopalakrishnan.Having mentioned this fact, one is tempted to recall TVG&#8217;s own spirited vocal recital a few weeks ago in the Vinayaka Temple in Besant Nagar, where he sang with great &#233;lan and held a large gathering spellbound with the mystic quality of his music.Hearing his version of Poorvikalyani was like taking a colourful photograph using special filters. But what made a truly heart-warming impression was his leisurely alapana of the infinitely beautiful raga Vagadeeswari and Tyagaraja&#8217;s profoundly philosophic song &#8216;Paramatmudu&#8217; which followed.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/01/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/01/25/stories/2008012551260700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.