(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPassion continues unabated
p3
sVnews
p4
VDIVYA RAMESHThe venue was vidwan Tiruchi Sankaran's house. Apart from the veteran mridangist, there were vocalists Madurai Sundar and Kiranavali Vidyasankar, and violinists Anuradha Sridhar and Kalpana Venkat. Vainika Geeta Bennett  couldn't make it as she had a concert that evening. But she added her comments at a conversation on the subject. Over coffee and Mysore Pak, this group had an animated discussion about the different aspects of a Carnatic musician's life abroad.To begin with,  Tiruchi Sankaran refuses to be called an NRI musician. ``Don't categorise me as an NRI musician. For I was already an established mridangist before I set foot in the Canadian soil!" he said at the outset. True, he was already a name to reckon with, having trained under no less than Pazhani Subramanya Pillai and accompanied the likes of Ariyakkudi Ramanuja Iyengar and Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer since early childhood.A special invitationIt was an invitation from the York University, Toronto in 1971, which took him to Canada. And he has not looked back.  Today, he is respected not only as a top-class performer but also as an eminent academician.The other artistes seem equally wary of being branded as NRI artistes! They argue  that they were all learning and performing for quite a number of years in India before circumstances forced them to move abroad. In the case of Madurai Sundar, it was the desire to pursue higher studies, while in the case of the women it was marriage.  The majority who now come under the NRI category are those who have recently started learning and performing, and are willing to pay their way to `stardom,' they say.``Luckily for me, Sabha secretaries are very cooperative. They invite me to perform rather than the other way round," says Kalpana Venkat. The other artistes echo her sentiment.Living abroad apparently has its advantages too. ``I get more time to practise and polish everything I have learnt over the years. There are no other distractions there. My daily routine mainly consists of practising, teaching or writing about music," says Kiranavali. According to Geeta Bennett, ``The only problem is that I have to wait to come to India to learn anything new." Kiranavali is luckier since her guru and brother, Ravikiran, tours the U.S. frequently, and she uses the opportunity to enrich her repertoire.``I do not see much difference between living in India and the U.S. Almost every week we have a visiting artiste performing in our city so we are exposed to good music throughout the year. Also there, it is pretty much the norm to have 3-4 hour concerts as against the more than 2-hour concerts in India," says Anuradha Sridhar.Most U.S. cities boast of an organisation that caters to the Carnatic music lovers. In fact, in big cities like San Jose, Chicago or New Jersey, there are several. Therefore there is no dearth of opportunities for well-trained professionals settled there. Violin accompanists like Anuradha Sridhar and Kalpana Venkat also have the added benefit of being able to play for visiting artistes from India.What about their experience as teachers?  The students are absolutely dedicated with some of them excelling in pallavi singing.The Cleveland Tyagaraja Aradhana competitions, for instance, draw talent from all over North America.Such events spur children to take to music seriously, and prompts artistes like Tiruchi Sankaran and others to start their music schools.Can one pursue Carnatic music as a full-time profession abroad? ``There is so much to do there. Why, I never thought of switching professions at any point of time," Kiranavali says. An academician like Prof. Sankaran spends a considerable part of his time delivering academic lectures and publishing papers as well. And he has still found the time to author several books on music. Sundar says, ``Time management holds the key." He is the only one in this group who balances a career at Chrysler, Detroit, and music.Living in a culturally active place also means they get exposed to music systems of the world, and can perform for a wider range of audience.``I have interacted with musicians from different cultural backgrounds such as Africa and Bali, and have had the pleasure of composing for unique collaborations too," says Sankaran. There is always another side to the coin. ``It is an out-of-sight-out-of-mind situation. Living so far away from India means that we do not get the kind of recognition we want," feels Sundar. Certainly the number of concerts that happen anywhere in the world would be nowhere near what happens in Chennai, which is undoubtedly the hub of Carnatic music today.Is there any difference in the audiences? Well, it depends on whether they are Indian or Western. Indian audiences are pretty much the same.A different experienceBut playing for a western crowd is a different experience. ``One doesn't hear the spontaneousbheshorbaleor even see them nod their heads in appreciation. Also the concerts are only an hour and a half, with an interval," according to Geeta Bennett.``They applaud endlessly after each item, and that eats into our concert time too!" says Kiranavali with amusement. On a more serious note, she says, ``Thanks to the yeoman service done by people like the late T. Viswanathan and now Tiruchi Sankaran, foreigners can appreciate our music at a very deep level." For the younger lot the situation is quite challenging.  They only get a few concerts in Chennai every year to prove themselves. If they are unfortunate enough to fall sick when they visit and end up giving mediocre performances, they have to wait until their next visit to prove themselves again. They do not have the luxury of making up for such performances during the rest of the year.But wherever these musicians are, they are never bored. They only need an active and willing mind to keep in touch with their art. As they succinctly summarised, ``Our values have not changed, only our address!"Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010602810800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010602810801.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHAPPY GLOBE TROTTERS: Tiruchi Sankaran, Madurai Sundar, Kalpana Venkat, Kiranavali and Anuradha Sridhar.   Photo: S. R. Raghunathan.
p14
ss.