(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VAfter a gap of nearly two months due to unbearable heat, Swarajhari Sabha of Vijayawada presented an impressive vocal concert at Sri Kowtha Poornandam Kalavedika. Peddada Suryakumari of Kakinada won the hearts of the music lovers with her robust, tuneful and a little bit husky voice and purely traditional style. She used her lung power to maximum advantage and showed exemplary ability in all manodharmam aspects. Suryakumari, also a veena player, received her preliminary training from vidwan Tirupati Gopalakrishna and later from K.V.S.M. Girmaji Rao, Kambhampati Lakshminarayana Sastri (Delhi), B.V. Raman and Lakshmanan of Chennai, Kollegal Subramanyam of Hyderabad and T.R. Subramanyam (Chennai). She also started a monthly Sangeeta Sabha `Sangeeta Sravanthi' and a music school Sadguru Sangeeta Vidyalayam doing her might to the cause of spreading classical music in Kakinada.Suryakumari began her concert with Vasanta Varnam and followed it with Abhishta Varada in Hamsadhvani finishing it with sparkling swaras. After rendering a soulful Annamacharya keertana in Dharmavathi, she sang Bantureethi in Hamsanadam projecting her manodharmam ability amply in the alapana and niraval. In between she also rendered a Papanasanam Sivan composition in Jonpuri. The main item Sambho Mahadeva was preceded by Tatvameruga tarama in Garudadhvani in fast tempo. Pantuvarali delineation was a showcase of excellent phrases presenting the raga portrait in bright colours and appealing raga bhava. The niraval and swara kalpana again showed Suryakumari's depth of musical scholarship. Violin accompanist B.V. Durga Bhavani was in good form and gave excellent support to the singer. Her Pantuvarali version was melodious. K. Sai Giridhar was good on the mridangam and presented an intricate tani after the main item. Suryakumari closed her concert with a few devotional songs.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/06/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/06/06/stories/2008060650500200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.