(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImaginative style
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Suswaralaya College of Music, Bangalore, celebrated its 10th anniversary recently with a 10-day festival of music featuring a large number of concerts by eminent as well as young and upcoming vocalists and instrumentalists, lecture demonstrations, and bhajans. R. Sheshaprasad, accompanied by M.S. Govindaswami (violin), S. Ashok and Ranjani Venkatesh (both mridanga), presented a vocal recital last week as part of the celebrations.The performance commenced with "Vanajakasha", the adi thala varna in Behag, rendered in two speeds, followed by the sloka "Saraswathi namasthubhyam" set to Natta raga and Puliyur Doraiswami Iyer's "Saraseeruhasanapriye" in adi thala, sung at a brisk pace and bedecked with some vibrant kalpana swaras at "Saraswathi".A bhava-infused "Narayana" in Shuddhadhanyasi raga and khanda chapu thala preceded a fluent alapana of the comparatively rare raga Sarangatarangini, the krithi "Samanarahithe" in rupaka thala, and a few orderly kalpana swaras.Oothukkadu Venkatasubbier's captivating composition "Neeradasama neelakrishna" in Jayanthasri raga and adi thala, led to a fairly expansive alapana of Keeravani, encompassing an abundance of musical patterns for which the raga provides infinite scope. A number of phrases ending at crucial notes such as the rishabha, madhyama, panchama and the thara sthayi shadja illumined the distinct melody of the raga and the artiste's appealing style and improvisational acumen. The beautiful neraval appended to the krithi "Brovu brovu" at the line beginning "Devi sri meenalochani", however, ended rather abruptly without the anticipated kalpana swaras, the inclusion of which, would have vindicated the gradual development of the item up to that point.The main focus of the concert was on an interesting and stimulating raga thana pallavi in three ragas, Mohanam, Kamavardhini and Anandabhairavi. The softer shades of the raga were explicit in the elaboration of Mohanam, while the core characteristics of Kamavardhini and Anandabhairavi were encapsulated in concise alapanas, with the thana being presented in short segments of the ragas in reverse order. The names of the ragas coincided with their usage in the arrangement of the pallavi "Mohanangi kamavardhini pahimam anandabhairavi" in adi thala, with the neraval occasionally featuring a single raga for the entire line, and incorporating the necessary rhythmic variations.The kalpana swaras in the three ragas also incorporated single raga segments landing at the corresponding `eduppus' within the thala structure attesting to good laya control.All this was reinforced by exceptional and imaginative accompaniment by the violinist, and skilled percussion support from the mridangists, culminating in a lively thani avarthana.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/11/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/11/13/stories/2009111350850300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/11/13/images/2009111350850301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVARIETY The performance had an abundance of musical patterns
p14
ss.