(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn rhythm divine
p3
sVnews
p4
VEven at 80, Kishori Amonkar remains a singing sensation. Trained by her mother Mogubai Kurdikar, who herself was one of the front-ranking singers of her time, into the complex style of Jaipur-Atrauli gharana, she had emerged as one of the most creative artistes by the early 1960s. Before her appearance on the music scene, Jaipur-Atrauli gharana was considered to be the pioneer of an essentially cerebral style of singing that paid more attention to the technical perfection and less to the emotional content. But the innovative genius of Kishori Amonkar changed this perception as she complemented her style with the Kirana-like badhat, leisurely exploration of the raga, and due emphasis on the swara. Second to none in technical perfection, she won the hearts of music lovers with her bewitching voice. For a long time, she has been the most popular and most sought after female singer in the country.At a Sunday concert organised by SPIC-MACAY as part of its Music in the Park series, Kishori Amonkar once again proved that she is still creative as ever. She opened her recital with a jod-raga (combination raga) Jait Kalyan which is a special favourite of her Jaipur-Atrauli singers. Set to madhyalaya Teen taal, she chose the traditional bandish &#8220;Papeeha Na Bolo'. For a few minutes, she had to struggle with her throat but soon warmed up and settled down to offer a detailed and nuanced treatment of the raga which, as its name shows, is a combination of Jait and Kalyan. She sang with great concentration and created newer and newer variations and patterns. Her sparkling taans have not lost any of their luminosity and her ability to draw out the inner essence and beauty of a raga is truly dazzling. After the bada khayal, she sang a chhota khayal, &#8220;Nayee Re Lagan Laagi Tum Son&#8221;. This too was set in madhyalaya Teen taal and was redolent with rasa and emotional fragrance.Kishori Amonkar followed it up with a crisp Nat Kamod and sang the traditional bandish &#8220;Nevar Bajo Re&#8221; with great feeling. The Kamod ang taans were especially impressive although it seemed that she had started getting tired towards the end. However, her singing proved the old dictum right that while form is temporary, class is permanent. All through her concert, she showed her class. Bharat Kamat ably accompanied her on tabla while Milind Raikar and Chinmaya Kilhatkar accompanied on violin and harmonium respectively. Nandini Bedekar and Tejeshree Amonkar (Kishori Amonkar's grand-daughter) provided adequate vocal support.Nityanand HaldipurThe evening opened with an impressive flute recital by Nityanand Haldipur, a thorough-bred representative of the Maihar gharana.He chose a seldom heard raga Shuddh Basant and offered its detailed and serious version in alap-jod sequence followed by a gat that had both lilt and grace.He ended his performance with a honey-dripping dhun. Ram Kumar Mishra was impressive on tabla while Vibhuti Sharma and Anubhuti Sharma accompanied on tanpura.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/08/stories/2011040850100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/08/images/2011040850100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
Vsoulful melody Kishori Amonkar performing at the Music in the Park event in New Delhi.
p14
ss.