(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn distinctive sampradaya
p3
sVnews
p4
VT.K. GANAPTHYMangalam Ganapathi is a gifted composer of songs in praise of the deities of the Hindu pantheon. Her latest music album,  recorded in Chennai, was released by Swami Viswesaranandaji of Sri Ramakrishna Math at a  function organised by Manoranjitham at Sree Ayyappan Puja Sangham, Coimbatore.In the vocal recital, exclusively devoted to her compositions featured under the auspices of Manoranjitham, the professionally competent Sathur sisters rendered the songs in their own sampradaya style.Their fluent version of the varnam, "Kann Paarthal" in Kamas was followed by "Varanasi Vasitham" a eulogy on the Lord of Varanasi and Goddess Annapoorneswari. Lalitha's alapana of Vachaspathi for the composition, "Thiruarul Puriyayo" in praise of Sree Ayyappan was commendable and the neraval for the lyrical sequence, `Hari Sivan aruliya' and the swaras were neat presentations. Neela Jayakumar was the violinist. V. R. Jayakumar lent distinctive percussion support on the mridangam.Fulfilling concertSanjay Subrahmanian's   vocal recital under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts, Coimbatore, was fulfilling in terms of musical substance and an illustration of the ennobling traits of Carnatic music.Beginning with Tyagaraja's "Tappagane" in Suddhabangala he moved on to the Sriranjani raga alapana steering along methodically with his own characteristic and inimitable interpretative skill for "Parvatharajakumari" followed by a pleasing neraval and swaras.The elaboration of Dhanaroopi was done with poise and woven with essential gamaka sequences, lengthy karvais and asaivus for "Vaa Velavaa." The highlight of the programme was the RTP in Abheri for the pallavi, `Vellai Thamarai Pooviliruppal.'Nagai Muralidharan proved equal to the challenging demands of the vocalist in swara repartees and in his creative solo versions of Abheri, Todi and Beghada. Guruvayur Dorai (mridangam) and Udupi Sridhar (ghatam), with their consummate laya expertise in tani, lent regal splendour to the cutcheri.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/15/stories/2005071500040200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/15/images/2005071500040201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEXCLUSIVE: Sathur Sisters, Lalitha and Bhuvana
p14
ss.