(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVeterans, promising artists share the dais
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe nine-day Navarathri festival organised by the senior citizens of Vanaprastha, Vadavalli, Coimbatore, featured a variety of programmes that included bhajans, devotional songs and Carnatic music recitals by veterans such as Vijay Siva, Amritha Murali and Radha Bhaskar, apart from a number of promising young artists.The forenoon sessions were devoted to conducting laksharchana to the deities of Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswathi followed by recitation of scriptures in praise of Devi. The final day, Vijayadashmi, was marked by Vidyarambham, Upanishad parayanam and an open house session of music in which the senior residents of the complex showcased their talent.Veena recitalThe Navarathri concerts featured by Naadabrahma Gana Sabha (on the opening day) commenced with a scintillating gamaka-oriented veena recital by Jayasree Arvind to the accompaniment of budding percussionist from the Coimbatore Institute of Technology, Sri Arvindh. The vainika's raga essays contained core raga lakshana sancharas enthralling the rasikas.In the junior slot, Deepa Namboodiri was in her comfort zone through most part of her recital. The vocals of Trivandrum B.S.Sekhar and Girija Hariharan followed a natural course through the determined patterns of the songs on their agenda.The quicksilver voice of Amritha Murali in her renditions of the compositions in Kalyani, Kamalamanohari and Bhairavi with appropriate modulations maintained the concert tempo throughout. Ananthapadmanabha's deft bowing on the violin and Sivakumar's display of exemplary precision and control in his rhythmic beats on the mridangam added pep to the kutcheri.Vijay Siva's erudite presentation of kritis was a fine synthesis of azhutham and appropriate kalapramanams. His presentation of ragam and thanam in Bhairavi with a cascade of swaraprastharas and kritis in Yadukulakaambodi and Begada was hypnotic to the rasikas, transporting them to rapturous heights.Sreeramkumar's honeyed phrases in solo versions and swara forays on the violin and Manoj Siva's laya expertise enhanced the dignity of the concert.Vijaya Jaya's absolute control over her saareeram couched in rich bhava andmelody, while presenting her &#8216;Oothukkadu Kamakshi' navavarana compositions, made her music session impressive. Her vibrant renditions were a combination of insight and refrain with the able support of Guruvayrappan on the violin and Radhakrishnan on the mridangam.Radha Bhaskar's pulsating recital on the last day was a grand finale to the festival. Her raga exposition of Lalitha was quite appealing in bringing out the essence of its rakthi. &#8216;Pahi Jagajanani' (Hamsanandhi), &#8216;Mamavathu' (Hindolam) and &#8216;Annapurne' (Saama) were handled competently. Kovai Chandarn (violin) and Suryanarayanan (mridangam) accompanied the session agreeably.The Prastha ladies' dandia dance and kummi added colour to the festival. The group singing of Janaki Krishnamurthy and party had perfect coordination and synchronisation, and the alignment to sruti blended seamlessly with the melodic harmony. Sruthi Balasubramanian's session of devotional songs was soulful
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/10/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/10/22/stories/2010102250690200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/10/22/images/2010102250690201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSumptuous: (From left) Amrita Murali, Vijay Siva and Radha Bhaskar.
p14
ss.