(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFocus on lyric
p3
sVnews
p4
VAanandha Krishnan Paramanandha KrishnanTamil compositions of Madurai V.Kamakshi. Carnatic vocal MP3 Doble album CD.Salem Gayathri Venkatesan and Nilakantan Sridhar.Price not mentioned.Copyright: V. Subramanian, Delhi.Madurai V. Kamakshi who lived for a short span of 23 years was a staunch devotee of Lord Krishna and has penned a number of devotional songs on other deities also. She did not receive much of a formal training in music. Her compositions were outpourings of her bhakti.The first compact disc of this twin pack has vocalist Nilakantan Sridhar rendering the compositions of Kamakshi.Nilakantan has a voice that is well aligned to sruti and he is able to bring out the raga bhava clearly in all the 18 compositions vocalised by him.The simple lyrics of the songs have been set to rakti ragas such as Begada, Saraswati, Vasantha, Kalyanavasantam, Suddha Dhanyasi, Dhanyasi, Jonpuri, Kuntalavarali, Saveri, Nattakurinji, Kanada and Madhyamavati. Besides these, Nilakantan has sung two compositions as ragamalikas. The melakarta raga songs are in Charukesi and Dharmavati. Both the vocalists have eschewed alapanas, niraval and kalpanaswaras and have given prominence to the lyric as these compositions are predominantly bhakti-oriented and will not serve to be decorated with niraval and solfa passages.Involved singingGayathri Venkatesan has sung the songs covered in the second compact disc which total to 19 compositions.There are three ragamalikas besides songs in Anandha Bhairavi, Sri Ranjani, Kalyani, Pantuvarali, Khamas, Simhendramadhyamam, Hindolam, Kiravani, Bagesri, Kapi, Sindhubhairavi, Revathi, Sivaranjani, Hamsanandi, Kurinji and Surutti. It is an involved singing by Gayathri and is pleasing.The accompanists are Amritha Murali (violin) and Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar (mridangam).Behind the CD is a poignant story of a girl's love for Krishna and a brother's anguish and determination to do justice to his sister's memory. Kamakshi of Madurai was so enamoured of Krishna that the Lord became her constant companion. The girl, whose family was steeped in poverty, churned out verses in praise of Krishna.At 17, she was afflicted with tuberculosis. Unable to afford medical treatment, the family eventually moved to Gunaseelam, the widowed mother depending on the deity to cure her daughter, who passed away within a month at the age of 23. Racking cough and raging fever did not, however, prevent the girl from composing songs on Krishna. She spoke of seeing Him and conversed with him. Was it hallucination caused by her illness or was it vision?Kamakshi's brother, who had moved to the North after taking up a job, could reach Gunaseelam only a day later, after the body was cremated. A grieving Subramaniam went back with a heavy heart taking the collection of poems. He was determined to get the songs set to tune and rendered by artists. He wanted to release an album but did not know how to go about it. Decades rolled by and the brother was now worried that he would never be able to fulfil the task. &#8220;Will I leave this world without doing justice to my sister?&#8221; he often wondered.At last, after five decades, he found the artists in Salem Gayatri Venkatesan and Nilakantan Sridhar, who have sung 37 of the 300 songs composed by young Kamakshi. The twin-CD was released at the Gunaseelam temple, where the songs were rendered too. A fitting finale, indeed. Coming out of the temple after the event, an emotional Subramaniam told his daughter, &#8220;A weight is off my chest and I feel much lighter. I have found peace, now that my sister has got her due.&#8221;GEETHA VENKATRAMANAN
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/03/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/03/05/stories/2010030551450400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/03/05/images/2010030551450401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRich in bhava
p14
ss.