(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLukewarm affair
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARExperience and exposure make a sharp difference between a good concert and not-so-good-concert. The reflection of this inadequacy could be seen at every stage of the concert  -   in choice of selection, the sequence, time measure and creative music. Add to this poor sound system, which can ruin any good concert. This in short, was the outcome of the concert on the day. The vocal concert of Srikanth (USA) sponsored by Kalasagaram last week was an example of an amateur artiste.Srikanth has a pliable voice, which can yield to any command, but the depth and modulation is a serious lapse. It lacks the verve and power and the version pales to triviality. Evidently what Srikanth needs is coverage and know how. He has an excellent concept ofsruti gnanam. While it reflects well at higher octaves, it fails to register in theadhra shadja. In terms ofmanodharma sangitha, thealapanais sketchy and does not follow set norms. The fastersangathisin it are admirable but lack planning. There is certain amount of repetition. Thenerevalpart is tolerably good but theswarakalpananeeds a little more creativity.The concert started well with theata thala varnaminkamboji.Raga varaliwas well depicted and thekriti, mamava meenakshiinmisra chapuwas the right choice. The song carried thebhavawell. Thekriti, ramachandrainhamsadwaniset torupaka thalahas a strikingthisra nadaiand if it were presented inthisra nadai adi thalamit would have been more meaningful.Saveriwas well explored and the famouskritiofShyamasastri, dursugacame out with feeling together with a spell ofswarakalpana. Most of the time was spent in the itemmanasuswadhinamaiofThyagarajainshankarabharanam. There was relaxation in sketching theragabut the fast phrases predominated resulting with obvious imbalance in the facet. The song as well as thenerevalpart of the item went off very well. Srikanth ended up his concert with some lighter items including athillana. In short, it was a concert good in part although nothing outstanding.Pavani Srikanth, wife of Srikanth, accompanied on the violin. What is said of the main artiste applies truly well to the accompanist; the most needed element in her playing is thenadafeature. It is poor and lacks depth, although her command on the instrument is good. Every concert needs commanding support if its accompanying artistes if it has to prove successful. In that respect, Pavani's contribution was lacking. D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam could not do much as the main artiste was on a low key. A mridangam artiste always needs challenge in a concert if he has to come out in his colours. By himself Murthy is a renowned artiste but in the concert he lacked right atmosphere and adequate opportunity.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/23/stories/2005122301870300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/23/images/2005122301870301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSrikanth
p14
ss.