(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEnlightening lec-dems
p3
sVnews
p4
VQUITE A few youngsters are either unaware of India's great tradition or are indifferent towards it. Primarily because they have not been exposed to Indian art forms. That's what lecture-demonstrations set out to correct. The city recently saw three lec-dems by the Dhananjayans (dance) and R. K. Sriram Kumar and T. M. Krishna (Carnatic music).The Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth (SPICMACAY) brought in dancers Shanta and Dhananjayan to the Jansons School of Business recently. Sixty-seven-year-old Dhananjayan established an immediate rapport with the students with his disarming smile and utter friendliness.Seetha Sashidharan presented a few dance numbers based on which the explanation and demonstration began. Drawing examples from postures such as squatting, bending and prostrating, Dhananjayan went on to explain that Bharatanatyam is a bouquet of `yogic postures.' And, mudras helped develop a sophisticated sign language.For the beautiful "Aadinaiye Kannaa'' in Mohana Kalyani, Seetha danced exquisitely, portraying three types of love towards God &#151;  the `Vatsalya' of a mother, the `Bhakti' of a devotee and the `Sringar' of a beloved.When Dhananjayan demonstrated the navarasas, even those who were watching Bharatanatyam for the first time could identify the emotions. His portrayal of ``Bhaja Mana Ram Charana Sukha Daayee," a Tulsidas Bhajan, was a masterpiece, depicting episodes bringing out the greatness of the feet of the Lord. It was a success for Dhananjayan because the students were able to identify the episodes later.For the next piece, Dhananjayan chose the action-packed sequence of a deer finding itself in a tight corner and being rescued by the Lord. He essayed the roles of a frightened deer, swelling waters, a ferocious tiger, a hunter and fire with finesse. Finally, he turned into the lighting that struck the hunter dead, the arrow that killed the tiger, the shower that extinguished the fire and the deer frisking away happily.Finally, Shantha and Dhananjayan presented a number by Jayadeva, bringing out the sringara rasa, humorously portraying the anger of the wife and the way in which the husband pacifies her.People were filled with admiration for young musicians R. K. Sriram Kumar and T. M. Krishna during their lec-dems organised by the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Coimbatore Kendra, as part of its 10th Pongal festival.With an enviable foundation in Sanskrit, violinist Sriram Kumar, spoke on the esoteric mind of Muthuswami Dikshitar on the topic `Manthrasara.' He had done his homework well and his lec-dem was informative.Explaining the reason for the `Guruguha' mudra used by Muthuswami Dikshitar, he narrated how an old man (Lord Muruga in disguise) put sugar candy in Muthuswami's mouth at Thiruttani. So, accepting `Guha' (Muruga) as his guru, he started composing kirtanas.Sriram Kumar was supported by N. Vijay Siva. ``Srinathadi Guruguho Jayati," "Manasa Guruguha Roopam Bhajare," "Subrahmanyena Rakshitoham," "Chintayamaam," "Jamboopathe," "Chintaye Mahalinga Moorthim," "Sri Kamalamba Jayati," "Diwakara Tanujam" and "Sri Kamalambike'' were some of the compositions rendered. A few other songs were also sung  to support his views.His explanation for the word `Kamaakshi' as the one who has `Ka' (Saraswathi) `Ma' (Lakshmi) as her two eyes came in for wide appreciation.While Krishna played the charanam of M.S.'s "Bhogeendra Shaayinam'' in Kuntalavarali over the system, one could understand how M.S. split phrases in the right places, giving emphasis to each word, thus bringing out the beauty of the sahitya.Krishna concluded on a poignant note, saying that Goddess Meenakshi, being the one capable of bestowing a melodious voice (Madhurya Vaakprada Nipunaa), had granted that in abundance to her ardent devotee Subbulakshmi and made her `Suswaralakshmi.'B. RAMADEVIBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/25/stories/2005022500740300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.