(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSublime strings
p3
sVnews
p4
VDebu Chaudhuri is a  leading exponent of the famed Senia gharana, which is characterised by its unmatched tradition and playing style  using a  sitar equipped with only 17frets, a rare phenomenon these days.  Sitars with 19 or 20 frets are more commonly played nowadays. With his long association with Ustad Mushtaq Ali Khan,  under whom he trained for nearly four decades, Chaudhuri has inherited not only the traditional purity but also the mysterious mind of his legendary guru.Taking into account the mood of the weather, he chose to play raga Desh which is closely associated with the rainy season. The peculiar glow and zest of the plaintive melody came alive from the very beginning during the soulful alap-jod. The vibrant strokes carried out even the terse and tenuous harkat and murki with utmost ease during the detailed elaboration of the  melody. Rather than taking up a studious and dry technical approach to the raga, Chaudhuri tuned the minds of the listeners to the specific nuances of the raga in the most sophisticated manner. The corresponding combinations of the pivotal notes like Ma Ga Re; Ni Dha Pa in different octaves for instance, like mandra, madhya and tar saptaks, wove delightful designs.After the detailed alap-jod-jhala when he started the Masitkhani gat, set to slow Teen tala, Sandeep Das on the tabla plunged into it with the typical Banarasiandaazof his guru, the late Pandit Kishan Maharaj, in the openinguthaan. Starting the first few rounds with only the daayan (the right hand drum of the tabla) and then joining it with an elongated meend on the imposing dagga (the left  drum), before using both the hands to take a chakkardar tihai to join the sam of the sitar, Sandeep invited thunderous applause. The delineation of the melodious raga continued  through the slow Masitkhani and the fast Razakhani gat, adorned with beautiful taan patterns accompanied with the complimenting rhythmic play on the tabla by Sandeep.A staunch believer  in the guru-shishya parampara, Chaudhuri has passed on the art to many deserving disciples. To establish the importance of this tradition and to show a glimpse of teacher-taught togetherness, he had Panchali Nandi, one of his disciples, to assist him on the sitar during this concert. Panchali is a good performing artiste in her own right but probably she is not well acquainted with the etiquette of accompaniment &#8212;sangat. She gave this impression by superseding her guru many a time. For example, she would proceed to Madhyam, while her guru had reached only the Gandhar. She looked overawed and nervous at times, and was more comfortable when the concert turned into a taleem session, while just repeating her mentor.The recital concluded with a poignant Punjabi folk tune called Mirza Sahibaan. His touching meends and the intricate murkis  reflected the deep melancholy and pathos of the yearning love song. In fact,  Chaudhuri&#8217;s involvement with whatever he played was complete and his personal relish no less. No wonder the concert was a true treat for the ears and soul alike.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/06/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/06/13/stories/2008061350090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.