(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFor the heart and the head too
p3
sVnews
p4
VGopal Aravind's Carnatic vocal recital at the India International Centre the other day  stood out for its adherence to the traditional canons of thekutcheri paddhati. Blessed with a soothing yet powerful voice, the Chennai-based singer effortlessly sailed from the lower to higher notes much to the delight of the Capital's rasikas. A student of O.S. Thiagarajan,Aravind has added an emotional dimension to the guru's style.The concert began with the Saveri varnam "Sarasuda" and moved on to the famous Ganapati stuti "Vallabha nayaka" in raga Begada.Verve and energyThe flashes of kalpana swaras that embellished the Dikshitar kriti, showcased the verve and energy the singer possesses. Aravind's appropriate selection that followed was "Teliyaleru Rama" in the raga Dhenuka. Transcending the expertise of grammar he showed earlier, he brought out the varying shades of pathos, melancholy, longing and eagerness for union with the divine that marks out this Tyagaraja kriti.What followed was an exquisite gem  -   Tyagaraja's "Santamuleka" in the raga Sama. The slow tempo of Gopal's brief alapana was evocative of the shanta rasa that is characteristic of Sama. If the renderings of these two kritis are any indication, one would even advise Gopal Aravind to concentrate more on the slow meanderings of raga alapana if only to bring out its subtleties.For admirable as the swarakalpana may be, the nuances of raga bhava is a terrain open only to the select few and a singer who has access to it should make the best of this God-given ability.The Tyagaraja kriti "Appa Ramabhakti" in raga Pantuvarali saw Aravind at his masterly best. The extempore elaboration in the charanam line "Lakshmidevi valachuna" once again showcased the singer's hold over the quick flashes of kalpanaswaras.HighlightThe highlight of the evening was Dikshitar's kriti "Balagopala" in the raga Bhairavi.The extensive raga alapana as well as the moving niraval in the charanam were a fitting climax to the concert. The numbers that concluded the recital were marked out for their variety, but the famous Sanskrit bhajan "Hari Varasanam" dedicated to Ayyappa was sung in Neelambari instead of the more common and popular rendering in Madhyamavati.The artiste was accompanied by the young violinist Aravind Bharati, who, though only in his teens, acquitted himself creditably.The mridangam accompaniment was provided by K. Sreeram who wonderfully matched Aravind's renderings.K.N. VIJUBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033101610300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033101610301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSTRAIGHT FROM CHENNAI Gopal Aravind
p14
ss.