(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFeast for the ears
p3
sVnews
p4
VNada Tarangam&#8217;s music festival featured Nyveli Santhanam&#8217;s concert on the second day. Accompanying him were Dinakar on the violin, L.V.V. Iyer on the mridangam and Nemani on the ghatam. Nyveli a noted vocalist from the south is known for his rich traditional style. He began with a melodious Abhogi varnamEvari bhodhanawith detailed swarakalpana in it.Kanchadalayatakshiin Kamalamanohari was sung with clear diction with swaram.Telisirama chintanaof Thyagaraja was effectively sung.Dinakar followed with care and attention and did well. Iyer on the mridangam supported well with his good sandhanam and his tani along with Nemani on the ghatam reflected the old style.On the same day a noted and top ranking violinist of Andhra Pradesh, Annavarapu Ramaswamy from Vijayawada was felicitated by the Trust with the titleViolin Ratnafor his life time contribution in the field of music.The third day of the festival featured a vocal by Vasantha Subbalakshmi an  up-and-coming youngster who is visually challenged. Vasantha showed grittiness in her concert. She in the company of Rajashekar on the violin and Kapa Srinivasa Rao on the mridangam began her concert with Natakuranji varnam.Shobillu saptaswaramin Jaganmohini was sung neatly. Bhairavi was the main attraction of her concert and Vasantha did well with her ragam forLalithe Sri Pravruthein adi. The highlight of the festival was a grand violin duet by the established pair Ganesh and Kumeresh along with Vankayala Ramana on the mridangam and Nemani on the ghatam. Ganesh and Kumeresh have mastered the art with their steady and committed practice and have acquired rich knowledge over the years.The concert was elevated further by excellent support on the mridangam by V. V. Ramana a top ranking artiste. The duo concluded their recital with some melodic compositions. Chidambara slokam in five ragams &#8212; Revathi, Shivaranjani, Natai, Vasanthi and Kuntalavarali. A bhajan in Durga followed by an Indian note composed by the duo and finally with a crispy tillana in Sindhubhairavi again composed by the duo.On the whole they gave a rich treat of classical music. The concluding day of the festival featured a vocal duet by the noted Malladi Brothers, Sriram and Ravi. They were accompanied on the violin by Dwaram Satyanarayana and M.L.N. Raju on the mridangam. They began with a soothing kanada atatala varnam Neranamithe.The main attraction wasKharahara priya. Malladi Brothers rendered it with a masterly touch of the ragam and sungRamaneeyedain adi of Thyagaraja a rare krithi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/09/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/09/25/stories/2009092550440300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/09/25/images/2009092550440302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.