(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic, the soul of Nidle
p3
sVnews
p4
VCarnatic music constantly replenishes itself in unlikely locales, far from Thanjavur. An enormous wealth of untappedtalent flourishes in villages, all over south India. Given the right opportunities this immense talent can surface.Nidle, deep in Dakshina Kannada (Karnataka), is a tiny village of perhaps 500 residents, which is spread out across the forested hillsides in near-isolated homesteads. It is a place where gun licences are given to people, who have land of ten acres and more, for protection against man and animal.Almost everyone here seems to love Carnatic music. Violinist Vittal Ramamurthy, disciple of Lalgudi Jayaraman, is from this village. Vittal has concretised the dream of his mother, who wantedmusic to be taught to those keen to learn, but had little chance to do so.Maestros and young vidwans are invited to Nidle, where they stay, conduct classes and perform. The village denizens willingly open their homes to the visitors, offering a taste of village life. The audience consists of about 250 children and adults, ready to learn and listen. The five-day long camp goes on all day with short recitals by students who have come from far and near. The burgeoning talent is simply mind-boggling.Vidyulata and Sitapragya from Sringeri dazzled with their alapana of Vachaspathi and Kandajoodumi. A sloka ragamalika followed, very thrilling and rendered without a hitch. And the two are 13 years old! Young Gargi from Udipi, perhaps about 18, sang a very competent Todi without accompaniment. Kalasri and Sree sang Abhangs, which they learnt because of their interest and from recordings.There were also experienced young performers from Chennai such as Narayanan, student of S.P. Ramh, and Keertana, student of Dr. Sundar. The former sang a very good Kalyani, complete with a Srutibhedam foray into Hindolam. Keertana was outstanding - a brilliant Bhairavi was followed by Dikshitar's &#8216;Chintayama.' Then came &#8216;Visalakshim' in Pantuvarali -- this unique Dikshitar composition was handled excellently.Singing classesEach day Bombay Jayashri came and conquered, conducting singing classes - &#8216;Vandanamu' in Sahana, a favourite raga of hers, and Darbar - which were eagerly grasped by the children and adults alike. Jayashri was impressed by the standard of singing here, which is pure and untainted, far from the influence of cities. Her students too had come along and they kept the young ones happy with music-oriented Q&amp;A sessions.Saketraman's assured performance proved that he is among the top talents now.A superb Shanmukapriya was well supported by Venugopal on the violin and by the enticing rhythmic melody of Ishwara Bhatt on the mridangam.Keeping the focus on the Lalgudi school at the Nidle camp and the GNB Day on May 1 in mind, the short docu film &#8216;GN Sir &amp; I&#8212;Lalgudi speaks' was screened, drawing deep appreciation from the artists and students.Bombay Jayashri spoke of the GNB magic, and was visibly moved at the sight of her guru speaking with passion on GNB. Poovalur Srinivasan, who teaches mridangam, music and even philosophical approach in North Texas, was present as one of the honoured visiting vidwans. He was there to conduct teaching sessions. He was left reminiscing about his idol Palani Subbudu, and his closeness to GNB.The music, which was constantly in the air, was the soul-food and the real food served was aromatic and home-cooked. The local cuisine was tasted by the visitors including those from Delhi, U.S. and Canada.A small united family's commitment to music has made Nidle an attractive summer option in May despite the heat. Artists, students, parents and music lovers definitely seem intent on repeating the experience. Such is the power of Carnatic music.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/06/stories/2011050650610200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/06/images/2011050650610201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFruitful sojourn: Bombay Jayashri
p14
ss.