(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VResonant voice of Haridas Giri
p3
sVnews
p4
VCD's AM 5054 AM 5055 Amutham Music-Marati-Guruji Haridas Giri  -Devotional, Rs.150 each."KALAU SANKEERTHYA Kesaram" says the Vishnupuranam. Meditation in Krutha Yuga, Penance in Tretha Yuga, Archana in Dwapara Yuga and the chanting of the divine names of Gods in the Kali Yuga are the royal paths that lead to salvation and a state of beatitude. The quality of the devotional hymns of sants of Maharashtra such as Tukaram, Gnaneshwar, Namdev, Samartha Ramdas, Eknath and others is timeless.Swami Haridas Giri was the disciple of Swami Gnanananda who was the sixth in the line of descendants of the Sankara Jyotir Math. He propagated the importance of Nama Sankeertanam through his chosen `sishya,' Haridas Giri. One remembers vividly how devotees used to flock to his devotional programmes at the Sri Gnanananda Hall and remained in an exalted state of devotion, rapture and ecstasy for hours together. The songs of the above mentioned saints in these two volumes, sung with a remarkable, rich resonance by Swami Haridas Giri, lead to supreme bliss where the jeevatma merges smoothly with the paramatma.These albums are nonpareil in musical and devotional excellence and are a must for the bhakta's collection.SAV 108 - Subham Audio-Tamil Devotional  -   Thiruppavai  -   Vani Jairam  -   Price Rs. 40The thirty Tiruppavai songs of Andal of Srivilliputhur, who was ranked among the Azhwars, are outpourings of her being embedded in unparalleled devotional mysticism.Vani Jairam in her own inimitable, mellifluent style has sung the verses with soul and spirit that requires a special level of commitment. The ragas employed by Veeramani Kannan are mostly classical  -   Nattai, Kalyani, Keeravani, Rasikapriya, Charukesi, Sahana, Chakravaham, Amritavarshini, Karnatakadevagandhari, Mohanam, Anandabhairavi, Sriragam and Surutti among others, have been utilised and presented immaculately.Sweet and soothingJAC 173 - Tamil songs  -   Magizhambu Maalayile  -   Vani Jairam  -   Rs.40Vani Jairam, a leading playback singer, who has lent her captivating voice in various regional languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi, Urudu, Marathi and Bengali, is an artiste of outstanding merit.She is an exponent of devotional music immortalising the hymns of poet-saints like Tulsidas, Kabir, Surdas, Meera and many others. This work of hers comprises Tamil songs by lyricists such as Kavignars Muthulingam, Piraichoodan, Kamakotiyan and Krithiya. The music, soothing and sweet, music for the songs is credited to M. Saktinatham, who also wields the orchestral baton with perspicacity to produce a pleasant, non-strident ambience.Vani, rendering the songs in different scales with absolutely clear lyrical expression and remarkable melody is truly one of a kind. &#151;S. P.New releasesSea Records(52123420/21, 28143050) has released CDs of Vaasthu Mantra and Karavalamba Stotras, the latter composed by Adi Sankara on various gods. Both in Sanskrit, the hymns have been rendered by Nishantala Surya Prakasha Rao and Gopika Poornima. J. Purushotama Sai has set to tune the hymns, traditional and much recited. Priced at Rs. 325.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/01/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/01/28/stories/2005012802060300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.