(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VErudite sessions on scholars
p3
sVnews
p4
VKRIPA SUBRAHMANIAMThe Music Academy's conference session, presided over by music exponent T.N.Seshagopalan, Sangita Kalanidi designate, got under way on December 16 with devotional music. Sri Nadhananda Sangeetha Vidyalaya group sang songs of Bhadrachala Ramadas.Kalpagam Swaminathan, veena vidhushi, presented a lecture-demonstration on Patnam Subramania Iyer as a vaageyakara. Tracing his life history, she said that he was born in a family that nurtured music and dance.  His initial lessons were with his uncle Melattur Ganapathi Sastrigal. Later, he came under the tutelage of Manambuchavadi Venkatasubba Iyer, who was the direct disciple of Tyagaraja. He came to interact with great stalwarts like Maha Vaidyanatha Sivan from whom he learnt several kritis.Endowed with a good voice, Subramania Iyer  established himself. Tyagaraja's Begada kriti `Nadopasana,' the Suddhasaveri kriti `Dharini Telusu Konti' and `Vidanu Sevave' in Kharaharapriya were his favourite songs. He handled Begada so beautifully that he was called Begada Subramania Iyer. He could handle apoorva ragas like Narayani, Simhavahini, Kannada and Mandari.Iyer was called "Chinna Tyagayya" since he followed the saint's kriti format. Author of 100 kritis, he had the rare privilege of seeing his own songs becoming famous.  He has composed varnams, kirtanas and tillanas in Telugu and Sanskrit. Ramanathapuram Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar, Mysore Vasuedvachar and Tiger Varadachariar were his disciples. He lived in Madras for 10 long years and hence the sobriquet. Iyer passed away in 1902, at the age of 58, at Tiruvaiyaru, which happens to be his birthplace also. Kalpagam Swaminathan was accompanied by S.R.Padmavathi on the veena and on the mridangam by Umayalpuram Mali. She rendered two varnams, one in Kannada, Adi tala and the other in Begada, Ata tala. Later she played `Etu Nammi Naanu' (Saveri, Adi), `Paridaana Michithe' (Bilahari, Khanda Chapu), `Marivere' (Shanmughapriya, Adi), `Garuda Gamana' (Nagaswaravali, Rupakam) and `Samayamithe' (Kedaram, Rupakam.) She rounded off the lecdem with a tillana in Sindubhairavi.M.B.Vedavalli, Professor and Head of the Department of Music at the University of Madras (Retd), presented a paper, "Vaaggeyakara Vaibhavam," about Mysore Veena Padmanabiah and his son Veena Sivaramiah. Vocal support was given by Lalitha Sampathkumar. She was accompanied on the violin by Akkarai Swarnalatha and Salem C.K.Ranganathan on the mridangam.Keen on learning musicVeena Padmanabiah adorned the court of Mysore and was a contemporary of Patnam Subramania Iyer. Veena Padmanabiah was both a vainika and a gayaka, with many scholarly compositions to his credit. Born in 1842, in the Hoysala Karnataka Brahmin sect, even at a very young age, he was keen on learning music, and was sent to Venkatesa Sastri at Hosadurga initially and had advanced training under Veena Shamanna, a court musician of Mysore. At Veena Shamanna's house, he had the opportunity to meet great musicians like Parameswara Bhagavatar, Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer, Pallavi Seshayyar, Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar and Thirukkodikaval Krishna Iyer.Veena Padmanabiah listened to these stalwarts and developed his own style of singing and playing on the veena.Veena Padmanabiah was proficient in Sanskrit also. There are thirty compositions available and they are under four categories. His Mudhra was `Padmanabha'. In Mysore tradition there is no distinction between swarajathis and jathiswaras. The name Swarajathi is used in all Kannada works irrespective of whether they have sahitya or not.The phrases are all on jati patterns emphasising the rhythmic aspect rather than the melodic aspect.Vedavalli sang a jatiswaram in Hamsadhwani which had Dattu swara prayogas with sahitya. Jatiswaram in Kannada, Karnataka Kapi and Thodi were sung. Though Veena Padmanabiah followed  Tyagaraja's tradition and Dikshitar he had a distinct style of his own. His son Veena Sivaramiah was his student also. Sivaramiah has composed songs in major  and minor ragas.Maharaja Jaya Chama Raja Wodeyar conferred on him the title `Vainika Praveena.' His mudhra was Sivarama. He has created Swayambhu Swara Raga with four notes. In 1934, this raga was demonstrated at the Music Academy by Veena Sivaramiah himself. One of his compositions, `Sri Rajarajeshwari Samrakshisow,' (Dharmavathi, Adi), was sung. T.N.Seshagopalan  complimented M.B.Vedavalli for her erudite presentation.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122202160700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/22/images/2006122202160701.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLalitha Sampathkumar and M.B.Vedavalli.
p14
ss.