(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNever a dull moment
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKWhat was distinctive about the performance of Priya Sisters, Shanmukhapriya and Haripriya, at the Sri Tyagaraja music festival at Tirupati was their skill to keep the momentum going. There was evidence of a spontaneous instinctive style in presentation linked to swiftness particularly on the part of Haripriya. Her raga sketch ofAndolika (Raga-Sudha-Rasa)andKalyani (Enduko-Nee-Manasu)was fluently comprehensive. But, there was a lack of calmness behind the rolling sancharas. If the sisters had imparted to the Tyagaraja kirtanas the serenity with which they later rendered Annamacharya's compositions, the recital would have gained in sheen.In the morning session, S. Srivani, veena artiste, built her recital on a courteous basis, thealapanasofSriranjani (Sogasuga), Kambhodi(O Rangasayee)comprising pertinentsancharas. Her good control on the frets steered the raga phrasings. Venkata Krishna (violin) K. Ramesh (mridangam) and A.S. Sankar (ghatam) were the accompanists. The violinist's brief raga lines were noteworthy.Mandolin Srinivas lived up to his reputation for razzle-dazzle spectacular exposition. Kirtanas are an excuse to display  overpoweringswaradrumbeats that titillate rather than offer  soothing music. One exception was the  briefalapanaofKhambodiandkritiO Rangasayee. D. Sridhar was the violinist, who was all the time in the shadow.Thanjavur Murugaboopathi was the mridangist and the kutcheri, in essence, became asaval-jawaabexercise in noisy exchanges between him and Srinivas.Musicians, we hear in concerts these days are at ease with vilambakala exposition and so are unmindful of the emotions contained in thesahityas. Prarthana Rao seemed to be an exception. She built her recital on the strength of the songsEti-Jenma (Varali)andEnduku-nirdaya(Harikhambodi). Her emphasis was on lucidity. ThealapanaofHarikhambodiand theneravalfor the lineParama-paavanain the song spoke of the individuality.  Karaikkal Venkatasubramaniam (violin) and Delhi Sri Ram (mridangam) were her accompanists.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081101700200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/11/images/2006081101700202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSrinivas.
p14
ss.