(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDedicated to Dikshitar
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANTo offer a concert exclusively with Dikshitar kritis is no mean  task.  V. V. Srivatsa's Guruguhanjali, dedicated to the propagation of the greatness of Muthuswami Dikshitar, presented V.K.Manimaran, who did just that.  The concert  at the Ragasudha Hall,  Mylapore was heartwarming for two reasons: Maran's enviably masculine vocal chords and the selection of popular songs of Dikshitar thus making the recital lively."Siddhi Vinayakam" in Chamaram flagged off Manimaran's recital with a rather long winding spell of kalpanaswaras. "Ekamresa Nayike" in Suddha Saveri and "Swaminatha Paripalaya" in Nattai in quick succession paved the way for an unhurried detailing of Lalitha.Lalitha and the later Gamakakriya treatise of Manimaran were diligently structured with  mantra, madhyama and tara sthayee sancharas sharing prominence equally.With his pliable voice and commendable reach, Manimaran drenched the presentation with melodious kaarvais and bright brigas. In Lalitha, Maran's choice was "Hiranmayeem Lakshmim" and the main one in Gamakakriya turned out to be the popular "Meenakshi Memudam."Clear dictionManimaran also paid attention to clarity in diction as that is another special aspect of Dikshitar's offerings. Maran's niraval and swaras at `Sangeetha Vadya Vinodini' in "Hiranmayeem" and `Mathurapuri Nilaye' in "Meenakshi" went on right tracks with varying patterns of ingenuity. However, it would be better if he has a tight leash on kalpanaswaras as now and then they tend to go haywire.With good voice and training as assets Manimaran should eschew the diffidence he shows.  If this is overcome, Manimaran will go places.The other numbers such as "Sri Kanthimathim" (Hemavati), "Prasanna Venkateswaram" (Vatee Vasanthabhairavi), "Bhajare Rechitta" (Kalyani), "Renuka Devi" (Kannda Bangala) added substance to the concert.M. A. Sundareswaran on the violin was a perfect foil to the vocalist in raga, niraval and swara sections.  Manimaran enjoyed the advantage of having veteran Srimushnam Raja Rao play the mridangam.His back-up elevated the rendition of Manimaran with appropriate punches at right places and his `tani' was precise and immaculate.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/18/stories/2006081802740500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/18/images/2006081802740501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VV. K. Manimaran
p14
ss.