(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSpirited flute recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram featured two concerts as part of its monthly programme, a flute recital by Chennai-based Shantala Subramanyam and a vocal concert by Sriram.Shantala, who made a solo debut in Hyderabad, is the sister of flautist Shashank. This flautist showed all the qualities of a vidwans and her presentation was systematic and one could feel the soukhyam in her recital. Shantala began her recital with Natakuranji Varnam and presented the swara sahityam in tisram and tisramelkalam simultaneously. Natai was next to come for purandaradasa's Jaya Jaya in adi with steady kalapramanam.Devamritha varshini was next to come for the famous Evarani Nirnayinthura with clarity in the sahityam and the pace was good. Kalyana Vasantham was the first ragam to be detailed.The flautist did extremely well in bringing the expression of the ragam which also set the mood of the concert. Nadaloludai of Thyagaraja in rupakam was very well executed with good kannakku and the permutations and combinations were enjoyable.The main attraction of the day was the detailed alap of the ragam Ramapriya.the artiste came with brilliant phrases of the ragam which appealing and the Thyagaraja's Sandeham theerpuvaih in desadi talam has been rendered in a fast tempo.Dinakar on the violin did well with his accompaniment and his ragam presentation was good. The concert was lifted with quality accompaniment by D.S.R. Murty on the mridangam. Nemani on ghatam was a treat to watch.Sriram's VocalMaster Sriram performed at Kalasagaram as part of its promotional activity. Sriram is the son of Eswara Prasad a dancer-cum-harikatha exponent. Sriram has been under the training of Akella Mallikarjuna Sharma a reputed violin Vidwan. Sriram showed a lot of promise in his recital and his fundamentals are good. He gave a good performance in the company of Rajeshakar on the violin and Ramakrishna on the mridangam. The concert began with Bhairavi atatala Varnam Viribhoni in a steady tempo doing chaturasram and tisram together. Sharavabhavananda in pantuvarali of Mutthaiah Bhagavatar was rendered with swaram. The main attraction was Sankarabharnam. Rajasekar did well with his accompaniment on the violin and Ramakrishna's mridangam was neat and his tani interesting. Sriram finally concluded his recital with paluku tenalatalli in Karnataka devaghandhari and a neat thillana in the ragam rageswari of Lalgudi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/01/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/01/29/stories/2010012950430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.