(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA &#8216;walk in the park&#8217;
p3
sVnews
p4
VWay back in the 1970s, when Spic Macay started its movement to promote Indian classical music and culture among youth, Pandit Ravi Shankar was one of the benevolent artistes who came forward to support it. It was heartening to see that he was still available for the &#8216;Music in the Park&#8217; series held last Sunday at the Nehru Park in New Delhi. This series, &#8216;dedicated to our composite heritage&#8217;, presents Indian classical music in harmony with nature. This time his talented daughter and disciple Anoushka Shankar also joined him with Tanmoy Bose on the tabla.The concert opened with raga Poorvi Kalyan, a rare combination of the evening ragas Poorvi and Yaman-Kalyan. The reposefully rendered alap jod unveiled the melancholy of Poorvi and the tenderness of Yaman while portraying the independent identities of both the combining ragas and blending them into an integral whole with its subtle mystical charm. The composition that followed the detailed alap jod was set to a challenging ten-and-a-half beats cycle in medium tempo. The delightful musical sequences meandering the difficult time cycle had exquisite rhythmic patterns shared and enjoyed by both the artistes, with refreshing repartees on the tabla by Tanmoy. The captivating concert concluded with the romantic raga Maanjh-Khamaj which comprised a ragamala and talamala combining ragas like Kedar, Bageshri, Sindhu Bhairavi, etc., and talas like Teen tala, Drut Ek tala, Chaancher, Kaherwa, etc.The Ravi Shankar Centre recently presented a four-day long music and dance festival dedicated to late George Harrison on his 66th birth anniversary, which on the opening day began with a group instrumental ensemble by youngsters. On the inaugural evening, Krishna Mohan Bhatt, son and disciple of Shashi Mohan Bhatt, himself a disciple of Pandit Ravi Shankar, gave a sitar recital. He opened his recital with raga Madhuwanti, playing a brief alap followed by a slow, medium and a fast composition all set to teen tala before concluding his recital with a Rajasthani folk raga which had shades of Des, Tilak-Kamod, Sarang and of course Maand. Vineet Vyaas gave him the tabla accompaniment. The day also featured an Odissi dance recital by Aruna Mohanti. Other artistes featured in the festival included Jayteerth Mevundi (vocal), Kartik Sheshadri (sitar), Divya (Bharatanatyam), Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and Lalgudi Vijaylakshmi (violin).The Centre&#8217;s festival concluded with an impressive vocal recital by Manjiri Asnare and Kathak by Uma Sharma. Groomed by C.T. Mhaiskar and M.S. Kanetkar, Manjiri is perhaps the youngest vocalist of the Jaipur gharana who renders the famed gayaki with full authenticity. Her selection of ragas like Lalita-Gauri, Nat-Kamod, and Dagori itself spoke volumes about her well cultivated musicianship. She concluded her recital with a bhajan composed by the famous Krishna Rao, replete with the charming nuances of Natya Sangit. She had commendable support by Paromita Banerjee on the harmonium and Vinod Lele on the tabla.Uma Sharma reminisced about her U.K. tour, way back in the &#8216;80s, when musicians accompanying her could not reach in time and Pandit Ravi Shankar had rescued her with a lehera in raga Hemant. Her extraordinary abhinay that evening on the choicest of poetry and kavitas came as a grateful offering to the legendary maestro.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/03/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/03/06/stories/2009030650100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/03/06/images/2009030650100302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAnoushka Shankar
p14
ss.