(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConnoisseur's delight
p3
sVnews
p4
VSULOCHANA PATTABHIRAMANDr. Balamurali Krishna, artiste extraordinaire was featured in the annual series under the aegis of Vijay TV. The colourful all-women accompaniment ensemble comprised Kalpana Venkat on the violin, Thanusree Venkatesh on the mridangam, Sukhanya Rajagopal on the ghatam and Bhagyalakshmi on the morsing.Balamurali Krishna is perhaps one of the few senior vidwans who doesn't expect vocal support to prop his performances, no matter how advanced in years he may be. The opening strains of Sri Ragam signalled Tyagaraja's Ratna "Endaro Mahanubhavulu." The vidwan is one of the very few who has applied his mind totally to the lyrics of the Pancharatna Kritis of Tyagaraja. The diction without the least bit of fragmentation, meaningless splitting and suffused with optimum bhava, was a connoisseur's dream come true.Kalyani was expanded covering an amazing range and with appropriate Vadi Samvadi prayogas. The maestro's stupendous reach in both the Anumandra sthayi and Adi Tara sthayi with his vocal chords working magic would have done musicians half his age proud. Dikshitar's Navavarna kriti "Kamalambam Bhajare" was a model lesson in aesthetics and percentage pronunciation.Keeping the guessing game alive for a few minutes, the vidwan embarked on a musical sojourn of Vagadeeshwari, with the Shatshruti rishabham varjam occasionally. "Appa naan Vendudal" in Tamizh was the song choice.After the initial prayogas Ranjani emerged loud and clear with an interesting Sawal Jawab interaction between the singer and the violinist. Kalpana's alapana conforming more to the traditional format earned for her many nods of approval.Vande Mataram, a Telugu song composed by Balamurali himself, was the creation of a brilliant, sharp mind. The swaras with highly imaginative poruthams were the efforts of a master whose gray cells function with no respite. The ladies percussion interlude with remarkable precision, although it was only for a simple Adi talam, elicited thunderous applause. But the one who really stole the show was the lady on the morsing, Bhagyalakshmi.Young vocalist Sriram Parthasarathi who has imbibed the style of Madurai T.N.Seshagopalan through his guru Neyveli Santhanagopalan, proved in his concert for Vijay TV, that he has ample talent and potential to go places. A brief sketch of Gowlai, Dikshitar's "Sri Maha Ganapati" and buoyant swara passages served as worthy harbingers for an interesting programme.Healthy statementThe initial unfolding of Harikhambodi was heartening as it instantly established the identity of the raga. The alapana was a healthy statement packed with vivacious phrases, quite a few of them in top gear. Nagai Sriram's reply on the violin was sedate and to the point."Ramachandram Bhavayami," Dikshitar's composition in Vasantha, reflected the singer's enthusiasm and zealous approach in kriti renderings. Sama was in contrast developed with calm and composure albeit not too detailed. Short and sweet were the benchmarks of the raga stint on the violin.Gopalakrishna Bharatiar's "Varuvaro" was a commendable presentation highlighting the emotional lyrical content, conducive to a prayerful mood. A rather unconventional opening laid the foundation for an elaborate description of Kalyani, the perennial charmer. The sustained karvais, and the impressive tapestry woven around the Nyasa swaras were testament to a mature thought process. The forays in the Madhya sthayi and lightning brighas that would have put a Michael Schumacher in the shade, were just what the doctor ordered for an appreciative audience. The convincing conventional violin response was pretty high on the melodic quotient."Kalyani Kalmasha Naasini" in Sanskrit with an arresting aural impact would have been first time listening to many. The madhyama kala swara kalpanas sensitively etched with bhava, and the Dhurita sequences with flawless laya control revealed a praiseworthy brand of professionalism, although occasionally a rush of adrenalin raised considerably the decibel levels of the music, and what with the percussionists joining the fray with gay abandon, it was a no holds barred display. The tani avartanam by Sivaraman on the mridangam and Guruprasad on the Ghatam was meticulous and bubbling with energy - however the amplification could have been more considerate to the auditory senses. A few verses from Adi Sankarar's "Bhaja Govindam" in moving Ahir Bhairavi was a fitting finale to an enjoyable concert.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120102460600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120102460602.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBalamurali Krishna.
p14
ss.