(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEbb and tide
p3
sVnews
p4
VHe had taken a daring step to include a detailed &#8216;ragam-taanam-pallavi' session &#8212; considered an advanced level in concert playing &#8212; in his brief recital of only one hour. It did pay rich dividends to this young violinist as his manodharma (creativity) talents came to the fore.Delhi's R. Sridhar, who performed under the aegis of Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) at its newly renovated auditorium at Azad Bhavan recently, presented a pallavi in raga Sankarabharanam set to Adi tala. The alapana of the raga itself was an elaborate affair. He delineated the raga in phases and brought out its features to the fore. The taanam that he subsequently presented was melodious. The pallavi was presented with technicalities. However, since this was an instrumental concert, Sridhar could have sung the pallavi once or even recited its words to give a feel of the lyrics to the audience.Apart from presenting swara prastharas in Sankarabharanam, Sridhar presented swara prastharas in ragas Subhapantuvarali, Hindolam and Kapi, both in this as well as reverse order. Here again, the creative talents of this lad were evident , but one felt the choice of Hindolam immediately after Subhapantuvarali was not a wise one. Instead, a raga like Mohanam, Abhogi or Kambhoji could have given a better texture to the ragamalika swara prastharas.Earlier, Sridhar presented a varnam in raga Suruti and an invocation song on Lord Ganesha. Sridhar was accompanied on the mridangam by Kumbakonam Padmanabhan, K. Ramamurthy on the kanjira and Mannai Kannan on the ghatam. Their brief tani avartanam in Adi tala was captivating. However, earlier, whenever all thethree accompanists joined together for the songs, it was a &#8216;noisy affair'. One uppa-packavadyam, either the kanjira or the ghatam along with the mridangam could have produced better results.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/01/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/01/29/stories/2010012950110200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.