(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDouble treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram conducted a two-day music fest that featured two concerts of youngsters at Keyes High school.The first day featured a concert by Sankernarayan, a disciple of Gnana Skandan. Besides being a musician he is an IIM graduate from Bangalore.Good laya, followed by creative neraval and swaraprastaram is the strength of the artiste. He began his concert with reethigowla ata tala varnam vanajakshi. Ninnu Jhoochi Dhanyuda in Sowrastram was sung with aggressive swaram which set the tempo of the concert. Continuing the momentum he chose to sing Evarani Nirnainthura in Devamrutha Varshini. Kamavardhini was taken for an expansion and the raga was neatly presented in a balanced way for Ennaganu Ramabhajana of Ramadasu with good neraval. Ivvan Yaro Avilambam Krithi in misra chapu in Khambhoji was sung in perfect balance.The major attraction of the day was Thodi. The artiste explored the raga in Vistaram and presented a touchy alap with excellent bhava. He chose to sing Ninne Namminanu of Syamasatry in Misrachapu. The neraval in this talam was dealt with maturity and swaraprastaram was executed with intelligence. B.S. Narayanan on the violin provided good support . Aravind on the Mridangam along with Shyam on Kanjeera and Radhapadmaja on the Morsing did well. The tani was simple and enjoyable. On the second day Sowmya Sridhar who is currently taking music lessons from Hyderabad Sisters performed. She was in the company of Rajashekar on the violin, the experienced mridangam player D.S.R. Murty and Shyam Kumar on the Kanjeera. Sowmya began her concert with Sri Mahaganapathim Bhajeham in atana with a brief swaram. Sattaleni Dina in Naganandini was a rare item which was neatly presented. Vidajaladura in Jaranjani was a fast number. The first raga expansion was Poorvikalyani and here the artiste revealed the ragam with all its classic sangathis. .The main attraction of the day was thodi. Sowmya sang Srikrishnam Bhaja manasa. The rendition was good with neraval and swaram sung in an impressive manner. Rajashekar did well with his good anticipation on the violin and Murty on the Mridangam elevated the concert with his experience.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/23/stories/2010042350480300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/23/images/2010042350480301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.