(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic on the banks of the Ganga
p3
sVnews
p4
VGAUTAM CHATTERJEEUstad Vilayat Khan, one of the greatest sitarists of our time, cannot be a forgotten tale of Indian classical music. Caught in the ever-spinning whirl of life, one may well forget  some long cherished memories of the loved ones who once peopled our dreams, whose fragrance spreads to the four corners of the world, who mesmerised one and all. He seems like a fairy on wings, all in white, like a fugitive speck of cloud somewhere on the horizon. This enchantment in the form of Vilayat Khan passed into nothingness two years ago on March 13 at Mumbai. A few months before that he came to  Varanasi to confer the Inayat Khan Samman on shenai maestro Bismillah Khan and joined him in a sitar-shehnai jugalbandiat Hotel Taj. He was as vibrant and energetic as ever. "What once was our heartthrob is now part of an irrevocable past! To sob or sigh for what is no more and let enchanting memories curdle your heart is the stuff romance is made of," he had murmured after that award  ceremony.Romance... ? "Yes," he started in Bangla  -   usually his innermost feelings found expression in his childhood language  -   "from Rabindranath to Nargis, I grew in a certain kind of romance. When I was 18, playing with a (toy) jaguar, I was the little man in Bombay in 1951, wearing  French shirts. Romance flowered in Calcutta, which eventually superimposed itself on this instrument called the sitar."NostalgiaA sitar with a vocal allure. "Actually this belongs to my gharana, the Imdad Khani gharana"  -   he was delightful in his nostalgia  -   "Imdad Khan, who played the Rudra veena in the Dhrupad style prevalent in his times. After him Abba (my father Ustad Inayat Khan) established the gayaki ang of our gharana in instruments and popularised it. Imrat (my brother) and I tried to touch this experimental feeling, for if we play the sitar with gayaki ang, we must sing as well, at the same time! Now we expect this from my sons Shujaat and Hidayat. They are playing well but not matured like my adolescent days. I played when it was easy for me, but when I really came to understand (the vastness of thevidyathat is music), it became impossible for me to handle the same instrument."Those who heard him cannot easily  forget the cumulative impact of his hypnotic melody, balanced fingering, taiyari, voice, his intimate involvement and self identification with the text, and the emotional fervour he used to invest in them."Rajab Ali Khan, Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and Amir Khan Saheb"  -   he exuded joy as he recalled them   -   "Inse mera jehan kuch aisa bana tha ki kya bayaan karoon? (How can I describe the way  they created a classical panorama in my mind?) Abba used to  have a deeper dialogue with Wahid Khan Saheb. Similarly in Indore, when Maharaj Chirkriti Rao was my host, I had to visit   Dewas where my Uncle Rajab Ali Khan Saheb used to stay. He  invited me to stay with him and  nurtured my dormant classical nuances, and after that it (my music) flowed with the fragrance of Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and Amir Khan Saheb's spiritual presence."MelancholyYet in this hotel room in Varanasi, in the presence of Bismillah Khan Saheb, he seemed to hide a sea of pain and privation beneath the mellow conversation. An air of perennial melancholy never forsook him. On that last evening in Varanasi, he exclaimed, "Varanasi for me is a place for those audiences who love music but find liberation here on the banks of the Ganga. To listen is to be liberated, if we feel ourselves on the bank of the  Ganga of Indian classical music. And in Calcutta and Bombay, or abroad, I miss Varanasi. Here, I first performed with (the tabla wizard) Anokhe Lal Ji in 1957. After my death, I don't want to live in the hereafter, but in Varanasi, with greater understanding of music.Mausiqui nahi hoti to mera kya hota?"Two years have passed since he left the mortal world. We do not know where the ustad is, but we know that pilgrims still come to pay homage at the Ganga of the magnificent musical legacy he has left behind.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032402040300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/24/images/2006032402040302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTHE GREAT ONE Eminent musicians paying homage to the sitar maestro Ustad Vilayat Khan .
p14
ss.