(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe soothing shades of melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHASabrang Utsav is the annual event of The Bade Ghulam Ali Khan Yaadgar Sabha, established in the memory of the legendary doyen of Patiala Gharana. The organisation is dedicated to helping musicians and promotion of classical music. Since its inception in1970, the Sabha has helped hundreds of musicians in illness and old age. According to their latest scheme, this year, the Sabha has presented a taanpura to a talented vocalist and a pair of tabla to a tabla player coming from the families of traditional ustaads, who could not afford the musical instruments.The 38th Sabrang Utsav 2006, presented at the India International Centre this past week, was organised as a homage to Ustad Munawwar Ali Khan, the scion of the Patiala Gharana. Most of the artists who performed during the two-day festival were the disciples of the late Ustad. After the formal inauguration by Ustad Rahim Fahimuddin Dagar, Ustad Mazahar and Jawad Ali Khan took the stage and opened the festival with their duet vocal concert.The duo received their initial guidance from their grandfather, Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, their granduncle, Ustad Barkat Ali Khan and father, Karamat Ali Khan before they started formal training under their uncle and guru Ustad Munawwar Ali Khan in the intricate style of the Kasur Patiala gayaki.The musical environment of the family, the vigorous `taalim' (training) and `riyaaz' (practice) has paid dividends in moulding them into capable vocalists. Their slow and `drut khayaals' and an impressive `tarana' in raga Bhopali gave ample proof of that. The `sapaat taans' racing past octaves, even terse and tenuous harkats finding easy expressions and the overall treatment of the `Audav' (pentatonic) raga gave them ample applause and the festival, a flying start. They concluded their recital with a bandish (composition) in raga Adaana set to Jhaptaal. Zameer Ahemad Khan on harmonium and Rafiuddin Sabri on tabla gave them commendable support.An offeringMalati Gilani, who sang next, is also trained by Ustad Munawwar Ali Khan after her initiation into the Patiala Kasur gayaki by Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. Her performance was more of an offering to her revered gurus. Even during her rendering of the Khayals in a serious raga like Darbari Kanhara she would stop singing in between and reminisce the encounters with her guru while learning that particular bandish (composition). She should be admired for her guru bhakti and keeping up the tradition by passing it out to her students, which was quite evident in the substantial volume of her shagird that assisted her in singing. She was accompanied on sarangi by Ghulam Sabir, on harmonium by Rehman Qureshi and on tabla by Nawab Ali.The concluding evening belonged to Ustad Asad Ali Khan who gave a masterly rendition of raga Bihag on rudra veena, illustrating how this raga is treated in different gharanas from the point of view of the usage of madhyam and its vakra swaroop in the descending order.Normally, this raga is treated as Audav-Sampoorna with five notes in the ascending and seven notes in the descending order but Khan Sahib showed how "pa ga ma ga" should be used with just a whiff of teevra (sharp) madhyam's perfume. "The notes Dhaivat and Rishabh are stitched inside," he said, adding, "they should be treated discretely not just as vakra." His performance was a `taalim' (education) for even the discerning listeners. After a detailed `aalap jod' and a Dhrupad bandish in Bihag set to Chautaal, he concluded his precious performance with a sadara in raga Khamaj. The evening had started with the vocal recital by Loveleena Kumar, again a disciple of Ustad Munawwar Ali Khan, who sang compositions of sabrang (Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan) in raga Puria Dhanashri.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100601590200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100601590201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VEASY EXPRESSION Ustad Mazahar and Jawad Ali Khan in concert.
p14
ss.