(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWhen Carnatic recital met Hindustani to create bliss
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was refreshing to find young artistes displaying their skill with aplombThe fest got off to a traditional start with the nadaswaram recital  by the Chidambaram-based A. Vijaya Kartikeyan in the company of M.S. Ravikumar and M.P. Natarajan on tavil. This was followed by a pleasing vocal recital in the classical Carnatic style by B. Bhavyalakshmi Saji. She was accompanied on the violin by local artiste M. Satyanarayana Sarma and the mridangam support was provided by Mandapaka Ravi. The evening concluded with an absorbing sitar recital in Hindustani by Raiskhan of Dharwad with Uday Kulkarni on tabla. He played a composition inVilambhitandDruthinteentalin raag Deshand another inMadhyalayainroopakandDruthinEktaalin raagPrabhat.The next evening was marked by an erudite flute recital by Jayaprada Ramamurty of Hyderabad with Ampolu Muralikrishna on violin, M.L.N. Raju on mridangam and Hanumantha Rao on ghatam.This was followed by a scholarly, soul-stirring carnatic vocal by Sikkil Gurucharan. Adeptly accompanied on violin by Nagai Sriram and mridangam by R. Shankar Narayana, the scion of the Sikkil family of flute fame presented a sublime blend of all criteria of exhilarating exposition of the tradition.Exquisite elaboration ofTeliyaleru Rama (Dhenuka) with gusto in particular marked the recital. The veena (electronic) and violin duet knowledgeably rendered by V.S. Ramakumar and N. Sampath next in the company of Unnikrishnan on mridangam, Trivandrum R. Rajesh on ghatam and Udippi S. Srikanth on kanjeera, was an aesthetic effort. Elaboration ofSaaramegaani (Pantuvarali)adorned withtaanamwas the highlight.Vocal recital in the North Indian style of exposition by Ranjani Ramachandran of Pune in the company of Guruprasad Hegde on harmonium and Srutheendra Katgade on tabla; Chitraveena by Ch. P. Ganesh with V. Sangeev on violin and Trivandrum Vydyanathan on mridangam; carnatic vocal by K.R. Jayasankar of Pondicherry with B. Anantha Krishna on violin and Arjun Ganesh on mridangam on the third evening were engagingly evocative.Accomplishing all intricate nuances with impeccable precision insruthiandlayaalignment, Kumari K. Lahari who stood hailed as a prodigy in the firmament of Carnatic vocal, provided a thrilling start to the penultimate evening of the fete.Elaboration ofNinnu vinaof Shyama Sastry adorned with scholarlygathiandyathivariations in the expression of Manodharma inswarakalpanainRagamalikain particular stood out. Then followed a thrillinglayavinyasamon pakhawaj by Lohit Sarma, Varun Jha and Salman Khan (aged below 14) from Hyderabad.Carnatic vocal rendition by sisters K.S. Sriranjani and Sruthiranjani with their sister Sumanasaranjani on violin with K.U. Jayachandra Rao on mridangam was a soothing musical exercise.Aesthetic tranquil rendering by R. Sreedev of Tiruvananthapuram with J.R. Anand on violin and T. Sundaresan on mridangam; scintillatinglayavinyasamby Thakur Harjit Singh on tabla , Om Prakash on mridangam, R. Srikanth on kanjeera and Ramana on ghatam; pleasing vocal by V. Sumithra of Chennai with local artistes KVS Prasad on violin and M. Sridhar on mridangam marked the finale.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/10/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/10/19/stories/2007101950330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.