(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VResonating notes
p3
sVnews
p4
VT.V. Ramaprasad sings in a rich supple voice, noticeably resonant in all the desired three sthayis, the mandra and the madhya enjoying a better privilege than the taara sthayi.The above marginal set back in the higher octave is mainly because of the tendency to effect complicated sancharas rather than due to any deficiency in proficiency.Akaaras are deep, pleasing and sometimes even simulating graces, specific to string instruments (vaadya kaaku). The general laya falling somewhere between slow to moderate speeds, the progressions are pleasing and lively.He was singing at Shri Krishna Ganasabha, accompanied by H.K. Narasimha Murthy (violin), B. Ravishankar (mridanga) and Shashishankar (ghata).Whereas he trails slightly behind in bringing out the essence of the ragas to complete satisfaction, he succeeds admirably in giving his best in the lyrical sections. Further, neraval thrives very well, supported by the mood carried forth from the preceding areas. In the present instance, sahithya came in handy to inspire the artiste to infuse the necessary bhaava into the presentations.Consider Subbarama Dikshitar's "Shankaracharyam" in Shankarabharana. He developed the alapana systematically - stressing on individual swaras in the desired octaves, gradually treating the swara clusters in progressive configurations, finally enlarging the extempore to bring out the raga chaaya.Yet, it fell short of the raga bhaava, which in fact fructi- fied in Narasimha Murthy's mature hands, beset with soft graces, subtle variations in volume and imaginatively intoned articulations. On the other hand, Ramaprasad impressively presented the lyrics and meaningfully expanded the anupallavi - "Shankara Bhagavaccharana". He beautified the movements with sprightly kalpanaswaras, amply supported by the rhythm accompanists.The highlights are varna ("Sarasijanabha" - Kamboji - Swathi Tirunal), "Raghunayaka" (Hamsadhwani - Thyagaraja), "Anandanatamaduvar" (Purvikalyani - Neelakanta Shivan - alapana was inadequate in contrast to the lengthy swarakalpana), "Janani" (Rithigaula - Subbaraya Shastri) - warranted a few strains of kalpanaswaras considering the extent of alapana, which needed more fluency and melody and so on.Dr. M.S. Bhaskar, noted neurosurgeon sang under the auspices of Swarasankula Sangeetha Sabha. He is an exponent of Agra Gharana, trained under Rama Rao V. Naik and Indudhar Nirody.For the present occasion, he selected Raga Megh to expand a composition of Sadarang. After the customary introductory air, the rag vistar went on with appreciable ease. He could admirably effect in-depth taans which often sounded like heavy gamaks.The voice was emotive enough to convey the mood the cheez carried, yet the taans needed swiftness in order to impart vibrancy.As the concert progressed, it gained significant momentum and vitality. The cheez- "Balamre Mori" (Sadarang in Behag) unfurled methodically on bol alaps and the taans in these areas were quite crisp, almost on par with seasoned artistes."Ja Ja Jare Jaa" (Nadaranjani- a composition of Ramanayak) "Taarakka Bindige" (Purandaradasa), "Neenyako Ninna Hangayako" (Purandaradasa) and "Kunikuniyo Ranga" in Bhairavi were other absorbing inclusions.Veerabhadraiah Hiremath (harmonium - inspiring melody support) and Vishwanath Nakod (tabala - appropriate tekas with astounding layakaris)  accompanied the artiste.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/01/stories/2008020151090300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.