(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSiblings rule all the way
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIAs always, the Sankar Mutt in new Nallakunta organised a series of Carnatic concerts to mark its annual Navaratri festival. Of the many concerts presented on the occasion, the concert by Hyderabad Brothers turned out to be the highlight. The brothers gave a fitting finale to the festival.Raghavachari, elder of the two, displayed scholarship in bothragaandswaraexercises, while his younger brother Seshachari stole the limelight with his acumen. Both were at their best. The repertoire had more compositions of devotional appeal, with strong idiom of classicism. They opened their show by paying obeisance to lord Ganesha withMahaganapathiminNata. Theswaraphrases they wove in this piece displayed their sense of rhythm in some ofswaraphrases.AnnapurneinSaamawas an appealing number, particularly for the way the brothers rendered as one voice bringing out the rich essence of its lyrical beauty.MarugelarainJayantisriwas another interesting number they sang before Seshachari took upReetigowlafor detailed essay. He presented it extremely well. And the composition they chose to sing &#151;Janani Ninu Vina&#151;  of Shyama Sastry was an offering to the Goddess of this festival, suiting this mood of divine appeal. And theswara prastharathe brothers did again displayed their technical virtuosity.It's the sisters' turnLalitha and Haripriya, popularly known as the Hyderabad Sisters in Carnatic music circles, is a well sought after duo in all majorsabhasin the South. Their voices make such a synchronised appeal that the contrasting timber in the two voices blends into an attractive melodic lilt. One thing that is always evident is their preparation for the concert, irrespective of the significance of the event, place or occasion. Yet another appealing aspect is that they come out with a few fresh numbers in every concert that have not been heard before. This renders the concert quite refreshing and different from what they sing at earlier events. Their performance, also featured at the end of the Dessert festival organised by at Sri Sringeri Shankar Mutt was another event that marked the Navaratri celebrations.One of the rarely heard pieces the sisters sang on this occasion wasDayachoodua composition of Shyama Sastry inraga Jaganmohini. Rendering this composition, they tried their best to make it an example of what expressive rendition is. They spelt  each word of thesahityawith perfection and right kind of import. So was the treatment of another rare number,Ganesha Skanda Jananiin a rare ragaNagabhushani. After a few more impressivekritirenditions, the sister took upAmritavarshinias their main offering of the musical evening. As they sang, it turned out to be a real spell of sweetness --Amruta Varshini. The raga was built so methodically that one phrase emerged out the other as a soothing flow acquiring imposing look at the end, after a comprehensive exposition.  The latter part of the concert too had a rare but appealing number inSrirama Saraswatiin  ragaNaasamani.  Poosarla Manorama of Dwaram family on violin and P.R.C. Sarma on mridangam lent impressive support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/13/stories/2006101301260300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/13/images/2006101301260301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVOCAL Hyderabad Brothers display scholarship.
p14
ss.