(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTaking on brainteasers
p3
sVnews
p4
VGARIMELLA SUBRAMANIAMWithout frills and fireworks, Padmavathi Ananthagopalan filled her veena recital with passion at the Annanagar Music Circle. Percussionists K. R. Ganesh (mridangam) and S. Karthik (ghatam) showed an intuitive grasp of her musical idea.The three-hour experience was a throwback to an age when instrumental solos were supposed to have been almost unknown and a vocalist style of delivery was a dream among accompanying vainikas and upcoming violinists. Today, the chief representative of this tradition is the violin maestro Lalgudi Jayaraman and it is no surprise that his sibling should propagate the family legacy.But the evening was not about appealing to nostalgia. It was a sort of teaser for the enthusiastic audience which tried to pair rare ragas to rarer composers.MelodiousThe Reetigowla song, `Todanguvom Dinathai Ganapatiyai Ninaithu' by Nadopasana Srinivasan and `Muruga Muruga Endral Urugado Ullam,' of Periyasami Thooran in Saveri gave a foretaste of what followed. The tenor of the performance became clear as each kriticonveyed a sense of leisurely build up.S. Malavika, Padmavathi's student, would every now and then sing the lyrics, which were perfectly aligned with the sangatis played on the veena.Tyagaraja's "Brovabharama" in Bahudari and Syama Sastri's Ahiri song, `Mayamma' were notable for sheer melody of exposition. `Srisubramanyaya Namaste' in Kambhoji and `Ninnuvina' in Kalyani, masterpieces of Dikshitar and Subbaraya Sastri respectively, were rendered with great eloquence and authority. Dwelling on them for over an hour, Padmavathi revelled in raga exposition and pallavi improvisation that was ably matched by a percussion duo.LivelyThe Muthutandavar kriti, `Teruvil Varano' in Kamas, and the famous Kanada song, `Alai Payude Kanna' infused a lively variation in mood. But the brainteasers kept the audience on their toes. Spencer Venugopal's `Sarisamana' in Vidapi and Lalgudi Gopala Iyer's kriti in Megharanjani were perhaps hard to guess.There were ultimately no winners in a contest meant to induce participation rather than competition.The artiste of the evening is also the driving force behind the Annanagar Music Circle. With patronage from residents, her inspiring stewardship can enrich the cultural scene in this part of the city.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/05/06/stories/2005050602770400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/05/06/images/2005050602770401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDREAM CONCERT: Padmavathy Ananthagopalan
p14
ss.