(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStunning virtuosity on stage
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe annual Yaksha feast of classical music and dance programmes organised by Isha Foundation in association with The Hindu as the media partner began with the sitar recital of Ustad Parvez Khan, a scion of the instrument's first family, the Etawah Gharana, in the presence of Jaggi Vasudev at the precincts of the Linga Bhairavi temple located at the foothills of Velliangiri, Coimbatore.His opening sequence of Raag Kirvani was etched with sensitive strokes to the accompaniment of Ravikiran Nakode on the tabla.The artist's dazzling virtuosity punctuated by myriad variations in his phased prelude to the melodic possibilities of the raga followed by Jod and jhala in teen taal and the concluding folksong cast a spell on the audience.Ravikiran Nakode's nimble-fingered play on the tabla with clear beats provided a euphoric combination of strings and beats.Skills combinedSonal Mansingh's unique creativity giving a new dimension to dance &#8211; Natyakatha &#8211; in her Odissi performance on the second day revealed the dancer's embellishments of her singing and narrative skills combined with abhinaya.Her mythological version of Shiv Shaktidhyan was a colourful tapestry of emotions praising the Almighty and chanting His name.The opening Mangalacharan invoking the grace of Lord Ganesha and other deities such as Varahi, Bhavani, Chandi and Mahishasuramardhini with rhythmic sequences in a prayerful mood showed varied emotions and bhava in tune with abhinaya.The jatis following the invocation were marked by sprightly movements and body language expressive of their devotion. The depiction of navarasas, starting from shringara to bhipatsam, was a mini solo dance opera, using simple Sanskrit lines with clarity of diction and musical interludes to communicate different emotions that revealed Sonal's skill in choreography. Her portrayal of rowdhram, adhbhutham, bibhatsam, etc., was classy.The sound effects used for the navarasas, particularly Siva's adornment with skulls and ash came in for wide approbation. Lord Ganesha coming to life after several stages built up with swaras capped it all.Sonal and her troupe made full use of the stage for their tiptoed movements to bring about the desired effect.The orchestra comprised of Sangeet Acharya Bankim Sethi (vocal), Pradhan (pakhwaj), Abrar Hussain (sarod) and Rajat Prasanna (flute).Wholesome fareIn tune with the spiritual aura of Dhyanalingam, T.V. Sankaranarayanan's choice of compositions eulogising the Cosmic dancer in his reverberating vocal recital on the following day with minimum brigas was a wholesome fare.&#8216;Karunai Seivai Gajamukha' in Hamsadhwani rendered with swaras as the curtain-raiser was followed by &#8216;O! Jagadamba' (Anandhabhairavi) and &#8216;Sakalakala' (Ataana). His Pantuvarali alapana for the kriti, &#8216;Siva Siva Ena Radha' with a predominance of medium to fast phrases lent a distinct touch of colour to the raga. His vibrant voice coursing through the upper octaves in picturising the Abhogi raga for the kriti, &#8216;Sabapathikku' was weighty with gamakas. The delineation of Mohanam for the kriti, &#8216;Ka..pa..li' embellished with swaras showcased his artistry for aesthetic finesse.Sriram's violin accompaniment bestowed on the compositions the lyrical direction of his manodharma bringing out the dignity and grace of the ragas. Palladam Ravi (mridangam) and Tiruchi Krishnaswami (ghatam) stood out for their nimble fingering and clarity of sollus in their rhythmic beats on the percussion side.Delightful presentationThe unequalled voice of Parveen Sultana, the queen of Hindustani vocal music and disciple of Acharya Chinmaya Lahiri, displayed her new dimension acquired in her singing career in her delightful Hindustani classical recital. Her breathtaking craftsmanship over a range of higher octaves, though marred initially by discords in the vilambit, was made up in the drut later in the opening number, &#8216;Manna Nahin Laayi' presented with aplomb. Her voice flowing like a gentle breeze, the audience was swayed by the succeeding &#8216;Shiv Vandana' in Bhoopali. Her masterly musical expression of the subtleties of human emotions came to the fore in the following Khayal in Ragesri and &#8216;Devi Vandana, Bhavani' in Misra Bhairavi.Pt. Mitilesh Jha (tabla) and Srinivasacharya (Harmonium) lent dignity to the concert as accompanists.The concerts on all the days were followed by a lively and vibrant procession of the Linga Bhairavi Utsavamurti around the parikrama of the Dhyanalingam temple.(krishangan@gmail.com)
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/04/stories/2011030450610300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/04/images/2011030450610302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VLively fare: Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan with Ravikiran Nakode (tabla); Sonal Mansingh; (below) T.V. Sankara narayanan and Parveen Sultana.
p14
ss.