(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCaptivating melodies
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe violin concert of Mysore Nagaraj at Sri Ramabyudaya Trust, Mysore, maintained the legacy of Mysore T. Chowdaiah who was synonymous with the violin. Formally trained by his father, Vidwan Mysore Mahadevappa, the artiste with his dedicated efforts and involvement brought memories of the violin wizard particularly with respect to raga bhava. Nagaraj's creativity and melodious resonance while delineating the raga bhava in tristayis were appreciable. Ragas Hindola ("Samajavaragamana" of Tyagaraja) and Shudda Saranga ("Manave Mantralaya" by Padmacharan) were entrancing. Well-chosen compositions like "Enati Baduku" and "Pibare Rama Rasam" were rendered with sublime involvement. Vidwan Ravishankar's dexterity on mridanga stimulated the violin duo to reach the splendour of chaste music.The vocal concert of Vidwan Valson Memon from Kerala was another notable concert at the Sri Rama Sevamandali, Mysore North. The technique of traditional rendition with deep perception to reach the explicit "bhava" in developing the ragas Thodi "Gajavadana" (a rare composition of Ettiyapuram Maharaja) and Simhendra Madhyama (Mysore Vasudevacharya's "Ninne Namithini" in Misra chapu) were the hallmarks of the concert. Well designed ornamentation of gandhara-stayi based chitte-svaras was a rare prayoga in raga Thodi. Smooth decadence from one stayi to another, flexibility of talagathis were remarkable. Dixitar's Navagraha composition "Divakara Thanujam" in raga Yadukula Kambhoji was a good choice. Jyotsna Srikanth on violin, Kumaraswamy on mridanga and Ramesh on morsing gave adequate support.Beginning with a well-known varna in raga Bhairavi, the vocal concert of Sumana Vedanth did not reach any great height at the renowned Bidaram Sri Ramamandira. Inadequate ragabhava, lack of new expressions in the svara, marked the concert.She sang "Sri Vignarajam Bhajeham" followed by "Ramachandram Bhavayami", "Mariveri Dikkevvaru" (Lathangi) and an ugabhoga and few dasa sahitya compositions.On accompaniment were T. S. Krishnamurthy(violin), G.S. Ramanujam (mridangam) and P. S. Sridhar (ghatam).B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/21/stories/2006042103340300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.