(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMellow flavour of maturity and experience
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKMusic has travelled far from the ideals of the Trinity, for whom sangita was a means to reach a spiritual goal.  Today their songs are used as vehicles to gain name and fame, relegating the messages they carry to the background.  Aesthetic appeal today has no relevance to spiritual contents.Ragas become swara-scale variations, kirtanas are rendered mechanically and so kutcheries have become a bundle of techniques. Deeper understanding of the loftiness of ragas and sahityas is a far cry.So, all that is expected of an artiste is purity of sangita sastra and refinement of exposition. Age, however, mellows a musician, who becomes less inclined to exuberance.These reflections came to the mind listening to T. V. Sankaranarayanan in a concert arranged by the Delhi Sunder Rajan Academy of Indian Music. It looked as if Sankaranarayanan has left behind his early propensity for astonishing vigour and reach in raga alapanas and swaraprastharas. There was moderation in voice control in the tara sthayi excursions and brevity in  capturing the essence of Kalyani, Keervani and Ravichandrika taken up for raga vinyasa. The picture of raga imagery was marked by maturity that comes with years of experience."Ramaabhi Rama" (Durbar) laid the foundation of the concert with the Kalyani song, "Needu Charana Pankaja" creating a heightened atmosphere for the ebullient interpretation of the Suddha Seemantini kirtana, "Janaki Ramana." The Ravichandrika elaboration was sumptuous  with the song, "Maakelara." Equally heart-warming was the piece, "Punniyam Oru Kodi" (Kiravani) with a vivid alapana.The  serenity of the concert was well nourished by Delhi Sunder Rajan on the violin with crisp, chiselled sancharas of the ragas in his solo.  Srimushnam Raja Rao (mridangam) and Tiruchi K. Murali (ghatam) were perfect foil in the percussive wing.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032402450600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.