(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMesmerising maestros at play...
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAUstad Bismillah Khan, drenched in his phenomenal musicality, sang in the typicalpoorabi andaaz"Naubat baje ho Ganga dwaare... " and asked the youngsters who had surrounded him after the press conference at the Circuit House in Jaipur the other day, "What is this `naubat'?"And then delving deep into the memories of the good old days, told them, "My ustad, also my maternal uncle, Ali Baksh Khan and I used to play this `naubat' at the Balaji temple in Banaras every morning for years together." When asked by a reporter what is the difference between Banaras and Jaipur, since both are historical cities, the Ustad said, "Of course, Jaipur is a historical city but Banaras is made out of the essence of music. It is Bana plus Ras. It is soaked inras." Referring to the recent bomb blasts in Varanasi, he gave this message: "Music itself is a `mazhab' where there are no bars of religion, nationality, caste or creed...  The seven notes are the same around the world. Whether anything else survives in the world or not, two things will always remain there  -   sur and laya  -   and they are enough to take care of the peace and well-being of this planet."Many stalwartsThe Jaipur convention gave a royal treat to music lovers with some of the greatest maestros performing. Some of them provided a feel of their particular art form during the intensive workshops and also a rare opportunity to interact with them. If Ustad Bismillah Khan recalled his past, Ustad Rahim Fahimuddin Dagar demonstrated the proper way to do riyaaz (practice), or swar sadhana. Ustad Asad Ali Khan not only performed a rare and difficult raga like Pooriya but also showed the minutest nuances that distinguish it from the similar ragas like Marva and Sohni. The difference between the Rudra veena of Ustad Asad Ali Khan, the Mohan veena of Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, the chitra veena of Ravi Kiran and the satvik veena of Salil Bhatt was evident in their performances on their respective veenas.Shubha Mudgal's vocal to Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma's santoor, songs by the Manganiyars of Rajasthan to Pandavani by Teejan Bai...  there was an endless variety, not to mention Kathak and Kudiyattam by Pandit Birju Maharaj and Margi Madhu respectively, who are synonymous with their particular dance form.One of the very few exponents of the Rudra veena and the last surviving representative of the Khandar bani, one of the four schools of Dhrupad, Ustad Asad Ali Khan represents the Jaipur Beenkaar gharana. His forefathers were incidentally the famous been players of the royal court of Alwar in Rajasthan itself. He said, "Alwar is my birthplace and my elders have adorned the court of Maharaja Jai Singh."The ustad is noted for the purity of his style and the mood of profound contemplation evoked by his music. He believes in not only entertaining his listeners but also educating them. Introducing the young audience to the history and importance of the veena, he emphasised its closeness with yoga explaining that this is the only instrument played sitting in the vajrasan. And finally, he showed the way one holds it to play, rather putting it on like a garment.Once the ustad started playing the Rudra veena, the mesmerised audience was amazed by his unparalleled command over its exacting technique and his virtuosity. It was a `taalim'(lesson) even for the discerning listeners, when he elaborated using just three notes, the nuances which differentiate Puriya from Marva and Sohni, before he commenced his reposeful recital with the pensive Puriya. He said,"I don't want my audience to return empty handed. They should carry something along, when they go home."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070701900200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070701900202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VON A NOSTALGIA TRIP Ustad Bismillah Khan.
p14
ss.