(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSpirituality in music
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARMusic concert of Kalasagaram for the month of July saw a vocal recital by Panduranga Sharma. Ramanamurthy accompanied him on the violin,Arvind on the mridangam and Srinivasagopalan on the morsing. Sharma has learnt music from many renowned gurus, some amongst them being  Balasubramanya Bhagavatahar, Purshothama Sastry and, of late, Pattamal.Sharma is a puritan and, as is well known, it is difficult for contemporary masses to enjoy pure music and this is where Sharma stands to lose. What he gains in spirituality, he again loses in his pedestrian ramblings. This plan does not just sell because spiritualism ceases to convey any message to the normally emotional listener and tends to appeal only to those listeners whose interest is of technical and intellectual in nature.  There may be melodic progressions, but it begins to lose its inner meaning. This is what happened in his vocal concert last week.  It may be the penalty he has to pay for frequently changing his gurus, each although great, has the same progression of a perambulator - perfect in the guru's right but fulsome with the follower. Viewed positively, there is no hurry in his singing; it is marked by significant relaxation but unless it is decorated with modulations and transitions, it fails to appeal to the   listener. His voice is decidedly not charismatic but yet it retains a reasonable tenor, rich enough to convey the message of music.Rich assortmentThe selection of the songs included traditionally rich ones significant with natural piety. Cold perfection will somehow seems  mechanical. This seems to be the inherent defect of many of the contemporary singers; they fail to get into communications with the audience. Thekaedaragowla varnamaugured well, thekritiandvidulakuinmayamalagowlathat followed, was alapattammal. A shortalapanaofshudhadhanyasiled to the itemSri parthasarathi.Poorvikalyaniragawas well depicted; thekrithianddeva devaofSwathi Thirunalwas spelt out with goodbhava. The choice of theragakalyanithereafter was not in good judgment. Theanthara gandharain both theragasbeing common, the change did not bring out the needed contrast. But thekrithiandbirana varaof Shyama Sastri set toadi thalam,thisra nadaiwas scholarly and theswarakalpnafor the song was imaginative. However, the long passages ofalapanafor theragawere imbued with droning and repetitivesancharas.Todithereafter was a good choice andkrithi kamalambaof Dikshithar was imposing and stately. In both the disciplines ofalapanaandswarakalpana, Sharma should exercise more structural and practical thoughts to make the concert as a whole more balanced.A good concert can be ruined with bad sound system and the artiste's equanimity gets broken down. This is what happened in the initial stages of the concert and it took considerable time for Sharma to  regain presence of mind.This, in general, is the state of our concert arrangement and the loser is the audience. But yet, the concert had its own charm and engaged attention of the audience reasonably well. The accompanying violinist Ramanamurthy was rather unimposing and failed to enhance the stature of the concert.But to a great extent, Arvind on the mridangam did an estimable job with his masterly input.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/28/stories/2006072801110300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/28/images/2006072801110301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPanduranga Sharma.
p14
ss.