(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRare musical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VGayathri Girish sang at Ravindra Bharathi under the auspices of the South Indian Cultural Association (SICA) last Thursday. She began the concert with the Adi tala varnam in Shree Ragam,Sami Ninnekori.Giving a brief sketch of Shanmukhapriya, she sang Muthuswamy Diskshitar&#8217;sSiddhi Vinayakam. She added some quick and fast paced swaras to build the tempo. Gayathri picked up Anandabhairavi as the firstalapanaof the evening. She showed good raga bhava and the overall effect was placid. She sangMarivereand chose not to sing the second speedkalpana swaramsthereby giving in to the mood of the raga.The next item was the uncommon Begada krithi of Thyagaraja,Lokavana Chathura. Though fast paced, this piece was rendered with feeling and brought out the rasa of the raga.Thesangathisin the Anupallavi were notable. This was followed by a rare song,Navarathnavilasamof Dikshitar in a rare raga of the same name, Navarthnavilasam. She sangIdathupadam thooki aadumin Khamas with a lot of verve.Kalyani was the centre piece of the concert. Gayathri took up thealapanaseriously and worked quite hard on it to give a detailed picture. Though her voice in the higher octaves seemed obviously strained, the overall effort turned out to be good. Mysore Sreekanth on the violin gave an excellent account of himself in his turn. She picked up the grand Kamalambam Navavarnam,Kamalambam Bhajareand rendered it with goodsangathis.She sang a detailedneravalinManasa kalpitamayaand closed the piece with befittingkalpana swaraswith her Nyasa in Panchamam deserving special mention.The piece closed with a detailed but crunchytaniby the percussionists. It was high quality playing by the mridangam artiste Neyveli Skandasubramanyam and P. Srinivasagopalan&#8217;s splendid responses on the morsing matched it.Irrakkam Varamalof Gopalakrishna Bharathi in Behag initiated the extended but enjoyablethukdasection. This was sung in a suitably slow pace and with good feeling.Next came,Indiranama Indarikiin kalyana vasantham immediately followed by the Soordas bhajan popularised by T.N. Seshagopalan,Gopi Gopalalal.This piece obviously had flashes of TNS, the guru of Gayathri. Next, the Periazhwar Pasuram,Anjana Vannanaiwas sung in Kaapi.Gayathri sang an elaborate Vritham in Saveri, Tilang, Danyasi and Suruti to singSri Venkatagiri.The concert concluded with the Sindubhairavi tillana of Oothukadu Venkatasubbayyer.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/07/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/07/03/stories/2009070350700300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/07/03/images/2009070350700301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSoothing vocals: Gayatri Girish.
p14
ss.