(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCordial rapport with youngsters
p3
sVnews
p4
VAnnavarapu Ramaswamy was in the port city of Vizag recently. The octogenarian doyen of exposition of carnatic music on violin, a top  grade artiste of AIR and formerly a staffer of its studios at Vijayawada for about four decades, Annavarapu Ramaswamy rendered three recitals under the aegis of SPIC MACAY at different venues on Friday and Saturday last.Thanks to the keen interest evinced, as usual, by the head of the local coordination committee of the society, S. Vijaya Kumar (MD, Vijay Nirman Co. Ltd.) and his associate P. Venkateswarlu (AU Professor, Dept. of Chem. Engg); the three sessions stood acclaimed as ideally enlightening.The discreet differences in approach adopted by Annavarapu interspersing discursive comments on the content of his recitals and the attributes of the instrument was amazing. The cordial rapport intellectually established with the graduate students of professional courses in the Gayatri Vidya Parishad Engineering  College, the exquisite showcasing of conviviality before the pupils of the Delhi Public School, Ukkunagaram and the humaneness adorned additionally in making the younglings of the kindergarten of the SOS Village freely interact and even sing a couple of songs likeRaghupathi Raghava Rajaramin tune with his violin towards the end,  served the cause of  SPIC MACAY.Equally amazing and heartening was the  cultured way in which the students of DPS, headed by Prabhanjan Kumar, under the guidance of Professor Y.V.P.K Raghav and Asst. Principal, A. Satyadevi of the GVP College, organised the shows, fulfilling all  formalities like professionals. Founder president of the Mahila Action, a socio-economic body serving the cause of women, K. Swarna Kumari who was guest of honour at the SOS Village promised help to the village.The entrancing elaboration of Brochevarevarura (Khamas), Nagumomu (Abheri) and Ninuvina (Navarasakanada) by Ramaswamy, with  excellent support on violin by his prime disciple Durga Bhavani and accompanied  by  mridangam maestro Mullapudi Srirama Murthy,  the different venues was a  paragon of the  classicism in carnatic music.A. R.  S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/01/stories/2006090102810200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/01/images/2006090102810201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAnnavarapu Ramaswamy
p14
ss.