(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA musical evening by the musical duo
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Malladi Brothers &#8212; Sriram Prasad and Ravi Kumar, presented a concert on the fourth day of the 12th annual cultural festival and aradhana of Thyagaraja organised by Sri Chandrasekharendra Sangeeta Educational Society at Keyes High School. The till the end. They were accompanied by Rajeev on the violin, Arjun Kumar on the mridangam and by Hari Babu on the ghatam. The brothers have honed tandem singing to a high level of refinement to sound rich and pleasant together. The nasal tinge of Sriram Prasad pleasantly reminds us of their guru, Nedunuri Krishnamurthy. As they started off with a little know varnam in Ananda Bhairavi, their resonant voices is what caught the listener's attention immediately. Ganapathe, an invocatory piece of Dikshitar in Kalyani was rendered next.Sriram Prasad gave a brief account of Mayamalavagowla for the now rarely sung Vidulaku Mrokkeda. The swara patterns that followed a full neraval in Kamalagowri were very enjoyable. They continued with Narasimha, again a Dikshitar krithi in Mohanam polishing off with brisk swaras. Dhenuka was given a full-fledged exposition by Ravikumar. They sang Kamadenukam Aashraye, a song tuned by their father in Dhenuka with great feeling. Padavini in Salakabhairavi was used as a quick filler and the stage was set for the main raga, Kambhoji. The alapana ventured in to a rare facet of this beautiful raga in which Rajeev played the more traditional version on his turn. Arjun accompanied on the mridangam for the concise tanam. The pallavi on the Trinity was set in Kandajaathi Triputa (2 Kalai) talam. The ragamalika kalpana swarams and tani were delectable. The soft playing by Arjun throughout the concert enhanced the listening pleasure. The brothers sang some thukadas like Sivaya, Telisithe Mokshamu, Srinilayam and Govinda Sundara to end an enjoyable evening.Impressive vocal recitalSriram Prasad and Ravi Kumar, known as &#8216;Malladi Brothers' were the star presence in a two-day fest held by &#8216;Nada Prabha'.They called this &#8216;Madhura Gana Vibhavari'. It provided space for children to reveal their musical talents. That included Nadaswaram played by young P. Santosh of Visakhapatnam and mini concerts of Manda Shruti Ravali and T. Srinidhi. And a women's group comprising Padmaja Rambabu, Chandrabhanu, Balatripura Sundari, Padmapriya, Y. Ramaprabha, Ramadevi and Mahalakshmi revived the memories of forgotten treasure of Divyanama and Utsava Sampradaya kirtanas of Thyagaraja, by rendering them well.The major attraction was the vocal recital by Malladi Brothers, in the company of Peri Sriramamurthy on violin, Lakshminarayana Raju on mridangam and Haribabu on ghatam.Malladi Brothers opened their concert with a varnam in Asaveri, a composition of Lalgudi G. Jayaraman that warmed them up well ensuring a fine concert.They then rendered Rama Ninne Namminanu of Thyagaraja in Husseni and proceeded to present a brief essay of Reetigowla, for a fine composition of Thyagaraja &#8212; Dwaitamu Sukhama Adwaitamu Sukhama, which they rendered meaningfully. Kanugontini Sri Ramuni Nedu of Thyagaraja in Bilahari was another number related to Thyagaraja's bhakti to Sri Rama, which was rendered by the duo with impressive diction. The kriti was preceded by pleasing delineation of the raga. Poorvi Kalyani was taken up with a detailed alapana for Kasi Visalakshi of Diskhitar.The delineation was neat and pleasing revealing its natural beauty well explored by the brothers. This was followed by Ika kaavalasina demi of Thyagaraja in Balahamsa and a Dikshitar's kriti Kayarohanesham in Karnataka Devagandhari.Thodi was the raga the brothers chose as their main offering, choosing Shyama Sastry's Ninne Namminanu Sada to present in it.Their alapana was mapped with spontaneous and energetic phrases maintaining the undercurrent of melody flowing though telling musical phrases. The kriti rendition carried the Bhakti element of the composition. The nereval done at the line Kamamkshi Kanja dalayatakshi was an exhibition of manodharma skills.They followed it up with Nanda Gopala of Diskhitar in Yaman Kalyan and few other kritis before concluding the concert. Accompanists gave good support throughout.G.S
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/02/25/stories/2011022550270200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/02/25/images/2011022550270201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMalladi Brothers Sriram Prasad and Malladi Ravi Kumar.
p14
ss.