(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic of the masters
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram's dedicated service was reflected in its 42nd annual cultural fare. On the sixth day of the fest, it featured Malladi Brothers Sriramprasad and Ravi, rising stars in the classical music field.The duo has acquired lot of recognition for their sustained and dedicated performances. They have the strong determination to give their best and are also blessed with able gurus like their father Malladi Suri Babu and the legendry Nedunuri.On the day, it was great team performance with M.A. Sundereswaran on the violin, the experienced K.V. Prasad on the mridangam, and Trichy Murali on the ghatam. The show began with Sahana Varnam Karunichi in a soothing way. Sriranjani was hummed for Bhuvinidasudane with brief swaram in it. Shubha Panthuvarali was taken for the first expansion and the ragam effect was good for Pasupatheswarm of Dikshitar, a rare one. The pathanthara was of good standard and the swarakalpana was catchy with both the brothers competing with each other with good swara combinations.Pancha Shat peetha rupini of Dikshitar was next to come before the main attraction of the day. The brothers took Khambhoji for the day. The ragam reflected all the traditional sangathis and the brothers did well sharing the ragam for a rare krithi Marimari Vacchuna of Mysore Vasudevacharya with clear sahitya bhava.The concluding items were more attractive and included Jhanula madyaku thirugade swamy in Khamas, Takkuveme manaku of Ramadasu, Nanda nandana a tarangam, and Adi deva in Sindhubhairavi which were melodiously rendered. On the whole, the Malladi brothers' concert proved to be a very good team performance with quality music.Rajesh Vaidya's Carnatic Fusion:Rajesh Vaidya, a noted veena artiste, is well-acclaimed across the world for his creative music. He performed for the first time for Kalsagaram.On the day, he with his full team of percussion artistes &#8211; N. Mohan Raman on the mridangam, Parama Sivan on kanjira, Chandra Shekara Sharma on the ghatam, Dheendayalan on morsing, Subramanyam on the drums, and Navaneth Sundar on the keyboard &#8211; and presented an enjoyable fusion music concert.Rajesh has great experience and his control over the instrument is noteworthy with his good technical knowledge. But the veena will be more effective and enjoyable when it is played in its right proportion. The horizontal playing by Rajesh is appreciable. On the day the entire fusion sounded bit loud with too much interference of the percussion instruments.Rajesh began the proceedings with a slokam on Kanchi Paramacharya and Vatapi in Hamsadhwani. He began on a good note with fast swaram. Valaji was melodiously played for his own composition named Shakthi. Entharao in Sree ragam was another attraction. Raghuvamsa in Kadanakuthuhalam went in express speed and the controlled playing by Rajesh was amazing.The main item was Kapi. Here he innovatively toured the ragam for his own composition with good laya expressions. The tani in adi by all the percussionists was enjoyable, and the combinations and mathematical patterns were quite enjoyable. The concluding items were popular items like Kurai endrum illaye, Kattru lilaya geetham, an English note, and finally Bho shambho in Revathi, which were neatly rendered.On the whole the concert was different from the rest in the festival and was more to the taste of to the laypersons in the crowd than the conventional music listeners.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/25/stories/2009122550410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/25/images/2009122550410301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFAST FINGERS Rajesh Vaidya at the fest.
p14
ss.