(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA dulcet veena and vocal recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARIt's good that classical music  is being taken over from  professionals, by the  technically qualified, who are genuinely devoted to the art.The two monsoon concerts of Kalasagaram last week included a vocal performance of Prasanna Venkataraman followed by a veena recital by D. Balakrishna the next day.L. Ramakrishnan accompanied Prasanna on the violin and S. Arvind on the mridangam. The flattering fact is that all the three are technocrats of high calibre.In a way it is good that classical music is slowly being taken over from professionals, by the technically qualified, who are genuinely devoted to the art of music rather than the art of making money.Talented performerPrasanna is a whiz kid. With sublimity and elegance combined, harmony giving rapture, he has a mind teaming with classical allusion, commanding eloquence that captivate the ear and seize upon the attention of therasika.Although it is difficult to fix up thebani, there are clear signs of Sanjay's style creeping into the overall design of Prasanna's music.At times, he looks taller than Sanjay all because he stands upon his shoulders. One fact emerges clear - to maintain order amid ever threatening chaos of confusion in the field  of classicism is a horrendous task. In this endeavour, the team stands out steadfast.The concert included classic items in proper order and sequence, each outshining the other. AvarnaminDarbar, vinayaka stuthiinKharaharapriya, anavagraha krithiinEdukulakamboji, asamashticharanaminDharmavathi,vararagalayainChenchukambojiled on to the main item inthodi, karunachudavamma.Begadawas reserved for RTP set tomishra chapu.The concert concluded with a couple of lighter items. The highlight was the perfect balance in overall concept, nothing overplayed or nothing wanting. If at all, Prasanna can improve in singingalapanain a relaxed way instead of hurrying, exaggerating the speedy passages.Hisswarakalpanaexercises are spiced with attractive combinations in even numbers devoid of exhibition and mannerisms.Thanamis evidently the high-water mark of Prasanna and the ease with which he plays about is amazing. As regards violin accompaniment, though comparatively weak, it is unfair to undervalue the beautiful style, so well discerned in excellent qualities.Befitting percussionIt was the playing of mridangam, which left the listener awestruck.First, it was the prominence ofsruthithat greatly enhanced the melody; the enormity of Arvind's playing is the projection ofsarwalaghu.It is commonly observed that percussion players end thepallavioranupallaviwith needless extension ofthirmanams. Arvind rightly does not believe in this; he enriches them with amukthayiin thenadaiitself. His speckled approached to eachkrithihas its own distinction. His art not only projects the rhythm but it also speaks music.Stringed instruments seldom attract as vocal music does, all because it cannot communicate the lyric.Indeed there are certain established styles that do try to project thesahithyaby special technique, but they are not effective enough. It is therefore the system that is more central.The veena concert by D. Balakrishna on the second day was one of idealist devotion. His father and guru, the renowned vidwan Doraiswamy Iyengar of Karnataka, was the tallest figure of his days in the art and Balakrishna has that prestigious lineage.The style is a little speedier (madhyama kala) than what an instrument like veena calls for; but he makes it up with adequatevilamba kalawhenever required.The strong point in his favour is his immaculatelayaandgritty kalapramana; a confident thoroughness is yet another additional qualifying eminence.Raga alapanais brief and to the point although not astounding; even so is his effort inswarakaplana.Pranamamyahumingowla, bhajanaseyaveinkedaramandjanani ninnuvinainritigowlawere the initial items.Kalyaniwas sophisticated and thekrithi,birnavarainadi thala, thisra nadaiassociated with a shortniravaland intricateswarakalapanademonstrated the scholarship of the artiste.Natakuranajiwas chosen for RTP (ragam, thanam, pallavi) and ended up coupling up with a few otherragas. The pallavi was set toadi thala.The concert wound up with athillana. The contribution of the percussion team D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam and Somayajulu on the ghatam added to the thrill of the concert.A noteworthy performance, but the talented Balakrishna must guard against some wrong notes (apaswaram) creeping into his performance now and then.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/30/stories/2006063001960300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/30/images/2006063001960301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VWHIZ KID Prasanna Venkataraman shows enormous promise as a vocalist.
p14
ss.