(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTuneful recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VVisakha Music and Dance Academy featured a vocal recital by Dwaram (Nemani) V.J. Lakshmi, Head, Department of Music and Fine Arts, Sri Padmavathi Mahila University, Tirupathi in Kalabharathi.Accompanied by well known local artiste, G. Annaji Rao on violin, young P. Balasubrahmanyam and renowned Vidwan Alugolu Satyanarayana from Tirupathi on mridangam and ghatam, she got off a tunefully grand start rendering a couple ofslokasinAmir Kalyani.Daughter of Bhavannarayana Rao (son of the violin wizard Sangeetha Ratnakara Padmasri Venkataswamy Naidu) and Venkata Ramanamma, Lakshmi honed her skills under the stalwarts Padmabhushan late M.L. Vasantha Kumari, T.R. Subrahmanyam and Nedunuri Krishna Murty after basic training in both the styles of Indian classical music under the tutelage of P. Surya Rao and J.V.S. Rao.No wonder, her soulful rendering ofSri Ganapathini(Sourashtram) andBrochevarevare(Sriranjani) withswaramfollowed by a brief elaboration of the rarely heard composition andraga, Parvathi NinuneinKalgadaandHimadrisuthe(Kalyani) adorned withaalapanain detail andswaram, reflected an effort blending the richness of the chaste traditions of exposition of carnatic music she inherited and imbibed. Then after evocatively renderingNagumomugananeni(Abheri), she came out with an expansive expatiation ofJagadodharana(Kapi). Marked with empathetic clarity in intoning of the lyrical and musical phraseology including the expression of Manodharma with full confident, the diction which she seemed to be developing for successful exploration of the element of classicality ordained in them, tended to mirror consummate signs of fulfilment.Annaji Rao in his turns, Subrahmanyam and Alugolu in particular, in their amiable following andthanihad their share of contribution transporting the entire mood bordering realms of ecstasy.Rendering of abhajan, composition of Annamayya and anabhangmarked the tailpiece.A. R. SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/24/stories/2006112400950200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/24/images/2006112400950201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN CONCERT Dwaram (Nemani) V.J. Lakshmi.
p14
ss.