(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn the world of rhythm
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt's difficult to believe that somebody afflicted with facial paralysis in his youth could become such an accomplished flautist that he would be honoured by the Sangeet Natak Akademi with its coveted award. To add to this is the fact that for many years, he did not learn music and went to represent his state Maharashtra in school-level football and later to lead the Bombay University volleyball team as its captain.But this is how Nityanand Haldipur is. A quiet, soft-spoken man, he is not given to hyperbole so typical of many Hindustani classical musicians. He brushes off my compliments with a shy smile and attributes all this to the blessings of his gurus.Nityanand started learning music from his father Niranjan Haldipur who was a disciple of the famed maestro Pannalal Ghosh. It was Ghosh who did to the bamboo flute what Bismillah Khan did to shehnai. He elevated the art of flute playing to such heights that the folk instrument was allowed entry into the rarefied world of Hindustani classical music as a solo instrument. Nityanand too began taking lessons from the maestro but as he was too young at that time, the taleem was rudimentary in nature. Later he learnt from Chidanand Nagarkar for six years. &#8220;His Agra gharana style did not suit me. So, I decided to learn from Devendra Murdeshwar who was the son-in-law and disciple of Pannalal Ghosh,&#8221; he says, adding that Murdeshwar was instrumental in his father becoming a disciple of Ghosh.Nityanand talks about his facial paralysis without any emotion. He got himself cured with the help of physiotherapy but acknowledges that some of its effects still persist, thereby forcing him to adjust his lip movement while playing the flute.Maihar gharanaSince 1986, he has been learning from the legendary Annapurna Devi, daughter of Baba Alauddin Khan who founded the Maihar gharana. &#8220;It was my good fortune that she accepted me as a disciple. Her style of teaching is very different from others. While other teachers ask you to follow what they are doing, she first explains the entire structure of a raga, its aroh and avroh and chalan, and then gives some taans to practise so that my fingers get used to playing that raga. Once my fingers are ready, she would go into greater detail of the raga and explain its intricacies. She teaches in a very systematic manner, keeping in mind the personality, temperament and capability of the student. She has given a different kind of taleem to Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia which is appropriate to his artistic temperament.&#8221;Nityanand Haldipur calls Annapurna Devi &#8216;Ma' (mother) and informs that Baba Alauddin Khan taught her the kernel of the Senia Beenkar tradition as imparted to him by Ustad Wazir Khan of Rampur who was a direct descendant of Tansen. He did not give this even to his son Ali Akbar Khan or son-in-law Ravi Shankar. Baba chose Annapurna because she was not supposed to pursue music as a profession and thus was under no pressure to play to the gallery. Nityanand says that even before she began to teach him, she warned that this was a very serene, serious and sombre kind of music and might not earn him the audiences' rapturous applause. He told her that he was not interested in getting applauded and wanted to learn as much as he could from her.I wonder aloud about the nature of taleem when the disciple himself has reached such a high level of proficiency. Nityanand says it often relates to how a particular raga should be viewed, how it should be treated, what its finer points and intricacies are and what kind of pitfalls one has to avoid while playing it. He thanks his sarod player friend Rajeev Taranath for introducing him to Ma and says even at this stage in his life, he can go on learning from her as long as it is possible.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/25/stories/2011032550310200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/25/images/2011032550310201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHIS GURU'S GIFT Nityanand Haldipur says before Annapurana Devi started teaching him, she warned him that hers was a very serene, sombre and serious kind of music and might not earn him the audiences' rapturous applause.
p14
ss.