(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSincere offering to Santhanam
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVI`Maharajapuram Santhanam Day' was observed by Telugu Samithi in  memory of the late charismatic singer at the Abhinava Theertha Mandapam, Coimbatore.  Maharajapuram Santhanam is one of those great musicians who has  left a mark with his special style, which is followed by   his sons. They are the torch-bearers of a legacy begun by the illustrious  Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer.Veteran mridangist Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman gave an impressive account of his experiences with the maestro, before the memorial concert by Maharajapuram Srinivasan commenced. The concert was a sincere offering to the late Santhanam,  comprising most of his favourites. The leisurely, soft, briga-filled delineations of the ragas, the innovative neravals and the swiftly flowing swaras of Srinivasan, kept reminding the audience of his father's music.Enjoyable alapanasThe alapanas were highly enjoyable but could have been more elaborate. He took only 25 minutes to complete the main piece "Nija Dasa Varada'' (Kalyani, Patnam Subramaniya Iyer). "Maarubalka Gunavemira'' (Sivaranjani, -   Tyagaraja),  and "Apparaama Bhakti'' (Pantuvarali,  Tyagaraja) were sung with adequate devotion and artistry. Kalyana Vasantham, which is normally not taken for elaboration, was presented in a lively manner and Srinivasan followed it up with "Sri Venkatesham Bhajaami Sathatham,'' a rarely heard beautiful kriti by Dikshitar.He took care to please the audience with a colourful assortment of lighter songs from various languages. "Neeraja Dhala Krishna, Hare Krishna," "Govinda, Ninna Naamave Chendha'' and "Vilayada Idhu Neramaa'' were presented breezily.The tillana in Misra Sivaranjani by his late father was highly appealing. He concluded his concert with "Bho Shambho'' by Dayanandha Saraswathy after the namaavali, "Nama Parvati Pathaye Hara Hara Mahadeva."Ganesh Viswanathan, Srinivasan's son and the fourth generation singer of the Maharajapuram family, displayed confidence and maturity during the neraval and swaraprastaras.Nagai Muralidharan's violin was smooth and scintillating. Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman on the mridangam and Sree Sundar Kumar on the kanjira gave a riveting performance.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/16/stories/2006061600200300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/16/images/2006061600200301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMaharajapuram Srinivasan.
p14
ss.