(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMarked with melody
p3
sVnews
p4
VSharada Cultural Trust as part of its 20th annual music fest featured a grand vocal by the most sought after musician Sanjay Subramaniam on the fourth day. Sanjay, a qualified chartered accountant has grown into a quality vocalist over the years with his traditional style depicting the great Aryakudi Parampara. His strength is his voice and can touch both lower and higher octaves effortlessly. His concerts are planned and executed well. On the day, he along with Varadarajan on the violin and Nyveli Venkatesh on the mridangam presented a recital which was the highlight of the music fest. He opened the concert with Thodi Ata tala varnam Kanakangi followed by a melodious Sahana kriti Rama ika nannu brovarada. Sriranjani was the first raga essayed well with pure raga bhavam for the rare kriti Parvatha Raja Kumari in Adi with well balanced swara in it.Shankarabharanam was next to come and the raga was detailed with classic sangathis for a Tamil composition Idhu Nalla Tarunam in misra chapu of Ramalinga's composition.The artiste did carry the momentum of the concert with another elaboration of the raga Saveri. This raga was well improvised with pure raga bhavam.Thygaraja's noted composition Rama Banam in Adi was the kriti which was neatly presented.The neraval and swarakalpana was presented with different permutations and the prastarams were well planned and executed.Varadarajan followed the vocalist aptly.Venkatesh kept the momentum of the concert and his tani in Adi talam proved his knowledge.Sanjay's Madhuvanthi was marked with melody and finally he concluded with Tamil compositions. On the whole, the concert was highly enjoyable and was attended by rasikas in large numbers.Musical stringsLalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan and his sister Vijayalakshmi gave a melodious violin duet on the fifth day in the company of D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam and Ramanamurthy on the ghatam. Krishnan is a qualified cost accountant and company secretary whose passion for music made him change his profession. Krishnan, an established violin artiste showed his experience and presented a recital with good selection of the ragas.A neat Ananda Bhairavi for Marivere was enjoyable. Khambhoji took the centrestage and Krishnan's scholarliness reflected in the raga with traditional sangathis for the popular kriti O Ranga Sai with brilliant neraval and swarakalpana.This raga was essayed with all the nuances and was carefully played. did well along with Ramanamurthy on the ghatam. The tani by the duo in the pallavi was enjoyable. Krishnan concluded his duet with Ennathavam Saidane in Kapi and Eppo varuvaro in Jhonpuri.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/02/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/02/19/stories/2010021950430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/02/19/images/2010021950430301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHighly enjoyable Vocalist Sanjay Subramaniam's concert was well received.
p14
ss.