(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBowing to create a symphony
p3
sVnews
p4
VS. SIVAKUMARPhoto : M. VedhanIN HARMONY: Violinist Kanyakumari (centre), flanked by disciples Embar Kannan (left) and Sanjeev (right), leading the recital.In his welcome address, Sri Ranganathan, Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Arya Vysya Maha Sabha, mentioned that the artistes (violinists and accompanists) on stage resembled the twenty-seven stars known to exist on the firmament.A. Kanyakumari, renowned violinist, made each star shine and glow with individuality. It was an exemplary combination of art and industry, "Carnatic Violin Symphony," presented itself at Tapovan Hall,  Chinmaya Heritage Centre under the auspices of the Arya Vysya Maha Sabha. That Kanyakumari's nerves had the spirit of adventure in it, all imbibed from the MLV tradition was proved in ample measure by the ease with which she managed and handled the violinists who formed the symphony.There were 20  violinists apart from Kanyakumari and their names deserve to be mentioned here:  Embar Kannan, Sanjeev, Ramakrishnan, Rajeev, Giridhari followed by Sowmya, Ganesan, Rajesh, Rajasimhan, Vittalrangan, Ashwin, Sharadha, Anandhi, Akshay, Anuthama, Anusha, Srilakshmi Venkatramani, Vidya Kalyanaraman, Dinesh and Madhurye.The songs chosen were understandably of the familiar genre, but the presentation never wavered from quality or from the systematic rendering of sangatis. The playing was flawless &#151;  no rash elements or slippages or freak phrases. The fare had "Vathapi" (Hamsadhwani), "Entharo" (Sri), "Ksheerasagara" (Devagandhari), "Raghuvamsasudha" (Navarasa Kaanada), "Nagumomu" (Abheri) and the mandatory "Kurai Ondrumillai." A composition of Kanyakumari in Charukesi was also included.Confidence personifiedThe proficiency of fellow-violinists was brought to bear abundantly during the swara exchanges for Vathapi and the alapana spells afforded to them in Abheri. Each violinist was confidence personified and the conductor of the orchestra never strained to give explicit instructions to the violinists around. The setting and tuning had been done admirably well.Adequate pre-performance care had been taken to adjust uniform audibility of all the violins and the percussion complement. The laya segment had mridangam accompaniment by K.V.Prasad and Phalgun, Vaikkom on the ghatam, Amruth on the kanjira, Rajasekhar on the morsing and Indrajith on the tabla.  The laya vidwans in spite of the sizeable fleet gave a neatly coordinated tani.One was left wondering whether "Raghupathi Raghava Rajaram" warrants a second kalam rendition, even as an experiment. Each violinist could also have performed a small sketch of the alapana  of the ragas played, by rotation. It was a statement of sorts. Here are a dozen violinists &#151;  capable, efficient, talented and well-informed and raring to go.* * *Cultural activitiesA few activities of the sabha include:Maintaining Sree Kanyaka Parameswari temple at Tirur, Thiruvallur district.Book bank for the deserving college students.Giving meritorious awards to outstanding students.Working towards improving the economic standards of the weaker community in Chennai, cultural activities and matrimonial services.Holding periodical medical check-up camps.Other projects:Set up Micro Finance Institution; Adoption of meritorious & deserving candidates (Professional course); Employment exchange.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802930700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.