(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VNew talent to the fore
p3
sVnews
p4
VSangeetha Ksheerasagaram featured up and coming female singers Kakarla Lakshmi Bharati and Kasturi Sitaramam, last week in two different concerts on the same evening at Thyagaraya Ganasabha's mini auditorium.Both the artistes were initially trained by Susarla Sivaram's disciples M.V. Ramamurthy and his wife Jayalakshmi in their Sarada Sangeetha Vidyalaya. They later tread different paths to get advance training. While Lakshmi Bharati did post-graduation in music, Kasturi remained a diploma holder. Both of them appeared to have not mastered much in manodharma sangeetham. That was what their concerts reflected. Hence, the onus fell on the experienced accompanists,Radhika Srinivasan on violin, artiste of AIR and Veenadhari on mridangam, to elevate these concerts to palatable levels with their out put. Surprisingly, both these artistes, who gave performances one after another, with the same accompanists following them, presented mostly kirtanas.Lakshmi Bharati, between the two, proved better in her musical equipment that she picked up from her other gurus Nita Chadrasekhar and S.K.Venkatachari. She revealed good vocal culture. Lakshmi Bharati sang Manasuloni Marmamu in Hindolam of Thyagaraja, Gjnanamosagarada in Poorvikalyani in roopakam of Thyagaraja, Kanjadalayatakshi in Kamala Manohari of Deekshitar, Sarasijanabha Sodari in Nagagandhari also of Deekshitar, but then felt need for a raga essay for which she chose - Kharaharapriya. She essayed it to reasonable levels adding a bit of her imagination. Rama Nee Samanamevaru in Roopakam of Thyagaraja, was her choice in this and had the pleasurable nereval and sensible swaraprasthara.The accompanists at every stage succeeded in elevating the vocal out put in parts. The tani avartanam was interesting.In contrast, Kasturi Sitaramam's concert comprised only of kirtana rendition in series. Siddhi Vinayakam in Shanmukha Priya, Teliyaleru Rama in Dhenuka, Samajavara Gamana in Hindolam, Janani Ninuvina in Reethigowla of Subbaraya Sastry, Sankari Sankuru in Chandramukhi and Manasa Etulortune in Malayamarutham, Narada Ganalola in Athana and Nadasudharasa in Arabhi were palatable. She rendered almost eleven compositions.These artistes have shown some promise and if they put greater effort, they sure can shape into consummate performers.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/04/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/04/29/stories/2011042950430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/04/29/images/2011042950430301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical talents Kakarla Lakshmi Bharati and Kasturi Sitaramam.
p14
ss.