(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VChennai&#8217;s Nityasri Mahadevan gave an impressive vocal recital on the penultimate day of Andhra Music Academy&#8217;s festival, held at Ravindra Bharati. She was brought up in rich musical atmosphere. Her grandmother D. K. Pattammal  initiated her into music as a child. She developed a pleasing style and rich imagination.Kapaleeswaram Bhajehamin Mohana was the opening piece.Ardhanareeswaramin Kumudakrya,Orajupuin Kannadagowla, andEndaroin Sri built the musical atmosphere before she went for the delineation of raga Jaganmohini forMamava Satatama rare composition of Thyagaraja. The festival&#8217;s penultimate day, the sixth day, opened with a flute concert of Nagaraju.Jaya Jaya Padmanabhain Manirangu andSriramapadamain Amruthavarshini were well presented kritis, displaying good tonal quality of the instrument. He delineated Poorvikalyanai forGnananamosagaradawith impressiveSwarakalpana.Evarura Ninu Vinaof Thyagraja withswarakalpanawas another attraction.Malladi Suribabu of Vijayawada figured later in a vocal recital. He served A.I.R Vijayawada and is known for giving music lessons over the radio, like his guru, the late Voleti did. After presenting a rare kritiManivini Vinumain Nalinakanthi of Venugopal, he chose to present Bhairavi as his main essay.Viswanatham Bhajehamin this, a composition of Papanasam Sivan withswarakalpana, was well received.Revati Ratnaswami&#8217;s Carnatic vocal and a Hindustani recital by Sangeetha Kulkarni marked the last day events of the festival. Septuagenarian Revati had support voices of her disciples Vishnupriya and Anuradha. She rendered a rare composition of ThyagarajaSarivarilonain Bhinnashadja raga. She essayed Pantuavarali and renderedSivasiva Yanarada.Bangalore based Sangeetha&#8217;s Hindustani solo turned out to be memorable concert for the way she gave good time for theAlaapof Bhoopali in Vilambit Ektal and Madhyalaya Teen Tal. She ended her concert with a Bhajan in raga Kannada. Udayaraj Karpoor on tabla and Ravindra Katoti on harmonium supported her well.Former recipients ofSangita Vidyanidhiawards of the academy - Mangalampalli Balamuralikrisha, Nedunuri Krishna Murthy and Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana and also veteran mridangam artiste Yella Venkateswara Rao, this year&#8217;s nominee for the Padma Shri award, were felicitated at a brief concluding function held on this occasion.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/15/stories/2008021550740300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.