(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDiffidence overshadows Commendable effort
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SWAMINATHANCan someone relate biotechnological law ethics, spoken Sanskrit and Carnatic music? Well, young Bharathi Ramasubban who is proficient in all these, continues her learning in these divergent areas.With many prizes in music to her credit, Bharathi established a vocal proclivity of clarity and full-throated articulation in her recent concert for Nada Inbam at Raga Sudha Hall.Her training under able gurus such as Sita Rajan and at present P. S. Narayanaswamy stood her music in good stead. The opening Kedaragowla varnam raised a lot of expectations.The swift moves with "Deva Deva Kalayami" by Swati Tirunal (Mayamalavagowla) with a chain of kalpanaswaras and "Tanavaari Tana" of Tyagaraja (Begada) made the listeners sit up and watch.Bharathi's elucidation of Kharaharapriya started off well, picked up appreciably but ended rather tamely. The composition choice was Papanasam Sivan's "Senthil Aandavan."Bharathi's presentation of Kalyani was more creative and convincing. With her commendable vocal range, she must be more vibrant in her expositions of ragas and swaras. She is, but the problem  is she becomes diffident. Her raga phrases were snipped abruptly where they have to go long. Bharathi should eschew this tendency and should expand her phrasings fully with more involvement and vocal thrust.Swati Tirunal's "Adri Suthavara," an unusual kriti in Kalyani was the central item. "Bhava Yogi Hrudayambuja" was the niraval point.Bharathi could handle lengthy kalpanaswaras but the swara combines turn loose or jerky in between.Impressive numbersBharathi's crystal clear voice and articulation will get a better deal if she concentrates more on confidence building with rigorous practice.The impressive numbers "Meena Lochani Brova" of Syama Sastri (Dhanyasi) and "Santhana Rama Swaminam" by Muthuswami Dikshitar (Hindolavasantham) were included in her concert agenda.Amritha Murali was more indulgent and was a morale booster to Bharathi.Amritha expounded Kharaharapriya and Kalyani with special attention to give ripe phrases and her swara sallies with the vocalist were quite complimentary.Thillai Suri was a little passive on percussion nevertheless supported the vocalist with concern.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/20/stories/2006102002430500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/20/images/2006102002430501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBharathi Ramasubban.
p14
ss.