(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLively interpretations
p3
sVnews
p4
VChaitra Sairam's performance under the auspices of Sri Thyagaraja Seva Samiti presented her as one who believed that music plainly conveyed pleased more than musical oratory. Bereft of overwhelming brigas or swara profligacy there was nothing mechanical about her presentation, but had enough substance to make it respectable.On a strong foundation of sound music she imparted animated liveliness to raga alapanas and kirtana interpretation. Being Bahula Panchami concert the all-Tyagaraja programme enabled her to feel the core of Carnatic music.Simple approachThe brief raga lines of Kalyanavasantam (&#8216;Nadaloludai') and Madhyamavati (&#8216;Vinayakuni') in the early part of the recital showcased the kind of training she had received that had made her aware of the truth that briefly contributed to the beauty of a raga. Her singing technique also conveyed that Chaitra Sairam had been well schooled in refinement. The style was free from any pretence of profundity and so the charm of raga vinyasa surfaced from the simplicity of approach with tuneful sancharas.The voice modulation ensured smooth progress, but with more of spacing and light and shade in alapana method the sancharas would have gained appealing felicity. In the rendering of the two kirtanas, she gave mellifluous touches, particularly to the Kalyanavasantam piece. In all these qualifications, the springs of her standard had to be seen in her pedigree training embossed in every respect.Graceful ThodiThe central item in the concert was Thodi (&#8216;Dasarati Nee Runamu Theerpa'). The structure of her alapana gained distinction by the sincerity to do justice to the beautiful raga and more so to the emotion-packed kirtana. Standing clear of fissiparous sancharas, she mapped out the grace and grandeur of Thodi in such a way as to connect it to the song that followed. The niraval passage &#8216;Aasa Theera Doora Desamulanu' was wrapped up in elegance. These basics are but the blueprint and her persistent sadhaka, which alone can take her to a higher level of artistry and aesthetics.The violin accompanist was M.S. Ananthakrishnan. A youngster in a hurry to unload all his prowess, he overplayed his role with fingering virtuosity at the cost of raga rakti. He has to rein in his exuberant enthusiasm to reflect to the extent possible the vocalist's plan. The mridangam support came from Delhi Sriram. With brilliant beat clarity, his propensity to pack fast-track Melkala pattern of play for songs has to be moderated with pauses, variety of jatis and less of anxiety to create percussive tempo.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/16/stories/2010041651240400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/16/images/2010041651240401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSimple approach: Chaitra Sairam.
p14
ss.