(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGuru of gurus
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn the annals of music, an extraordinary incident of guru going in search of a disciple occurred in 1924. Vamanarao Master's Vishwagunadarsha Dramatic Troupe was performing at Bagalkot. The troupe's harmonium master Pandoba was Neelakanta Buwa Mirajkar's disciple. He had heard of a boy actor in that troupe who was an excellent singer. He came that night to Bagalkot to listen to the boy's singing. The boy entered the stage and cast a spell on the audience with his singing. After the play ended, Neelakanta Buwa went backstage and enquired.&#8220;Where is that boy? Where is he?&#8221; Pandoba produced Mallikarjun Mansur and his elder brother Basavaraj Mansur before Neelakanta Buwa who exclaimed: &#8220;Mallikarjun sings so well. Such excellence is rare in someone so young. Let him not waste his talent in a Drama Company. Send him with me. I will make him a great classical singer.&#8221;But where was the money for gurudakshina? Sensing their predicament, Neelakanta Buwa reassured: &#8220;You don't have to worry about anything. He will stay in my house like a son. All the responsibility is mine. I will take him with me to Miraj.&#8221; Thus began one of the most celebrated teacher-student relationships in Hindustani music.Neelakanthabuwa's ancestors came form Holealur in Gadag district. Sometime in the 19th century Danayya of the family migrated to Miraj. Hence, their surname came to be Mirajkar. Danayya and Mahalingavva's second son was Neelakantayya (born 1860). He lost his parents early in life. Elder brother Shambhayya brought up Neelakantayya who was lost to music right from childhood. Shambhayya wanted his younger brother to be educated and get a good government job. But Neelakantayya's mind was set on music. Out of elder brother's fear, Neelakantayya pretended to go to school. But on the way to school, he would be absorbed in listening to music flowing out of many a house. When somehow he reached fourth standard, Neelakantayya wouldn't be found at school at all. He would be present wherever there was music. Shambhayya would advise his younger brother, &#8220;Look, music is not meant for respectable families like ours. It is the profession of stage actors and prostitutes. Children of jangamas should keep away form such vulgar pursuits. You must study and get a good job.&#8221;But these advises would hardly stop the musically destined Neelakantayya. On one of his musical sojourns Neelakantayya went to his classmate Ichalkaranjikar's house. Sitting on the platform outside the house, Neelakantayya would be immersed in listening to the music classes going on inside the house. Balakrishna Buwa Ichalkaranjikar had migrated to Miraj from Ichalkaranji. Music lessons would go on for four hours in the morning and in the evening. One day Balakrisna Buwa spotted the boy listening intently to the lessons. He said, &#8220;Bravo! Such keen interest in music at such a tender age!&#8221; Balakrisna Buwa, a great soul, unmindful of the formalities, took him as his disciple. After two decades of steadfast pursuit of music, a new horizon of the sound of music opened up before Neelakantayya. He had found his purpose in life. He became an accomplished musician and came to be called Neelakanta Buwa Mirajkar.Neelakanta Buwa rose in public esteem. Disciples trained by him were scattered far and wide and earned their living by giving concerts or by becoming actors in drama companies. Some of these troupes would invite Neelakanta Buwa to set songs for their dramas. Buwa was attractive, with round face, high forehead, big lustrous eyes, medium height, sturdy build, and dusky complexioned. He always wore a white dress, white dhoti, white coat and and white turban.Neelakant Buwa Mirajkar was a treasure house of raga/raginis. He could sing 40-50 cheejas in a raga. Once, while giving lessons to Mallikarjun Mansur, Buwa's disciple Tammanna came to listen. Neelakanta Buwa finished his lessons and sat down for a chat with Tammanna. During the chit chat, Tammanna praised some other musician to the skies and said, &#8220;Buwa, the other day, so and so musician sang a rare cheej in a raga. His style was unique.&#8221;Piqued by this over-adulation, Buwa sang not less than 40 bandishes in the same raga in a variety of talas. Tammanna was speechless.Neelkanta Buwa did many successful experiments on stage. A large measure of the success of Vani Vilas Natak Company rested on Buwa's music. Unfortunately, the Lingayat community of the times did not think highly of his music. And for that reason, Neelkanta Buwa was denied recognition which he richly deserved. In spite of which, he pursued music with great devotion. This votary of music breathed his last in 1935.Neelakanta Buwa Mirajkar was guru to three of the finest musicians &#8212; Mallikarjun Mansur, Panchakshari Gavai and Basavaraj Rajguru &#8212; that Karnataka has ever produced.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/10/stories/2010091050710200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.