(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTribute to music
p3
sVnews
p4
VSaragamala, a music and literary organization managed by Madapati Saralarani had organised a unique music concert performed by the noted musician Komanduri Seshadri.The concert titled Padakavitha Sangeetha Samalochana covered the compositions of the musical trio Annamayya, Sri Rama Dasu and Kshetrayya Padams at Ravindra bharathi. Seshadri has adequate concert experience as well as sound knowledge in the theoretical aspects of music.He presented an analytical concert explaining the distinguishing qualities of the trio and also their musical paths which laid down the foundations of Sadguru Thyagaraja.He began with Annamayya's Srimannarayana in Bowli in a melodious way, with fine touch of the ragam. Then he took Brahma Kadigina Padam in mukhari and explained the similar patterns of the krithi taken up by Thyagaraja in his compositions. aAdditionally, he sang Srirama Padama of Thyagarajar in Amrita vahini explaining the importance of the Sri Padam of the Lord. Pantuvarali ragam was taken for a detailed expansion which was refreshing. He chose Ramadasars Ennaganu Rama Bhajana with neraval swaram and later he attributed the same concept taken up by Thyagarajar in Sambho Mahadeva.Seshadri brought out the similarities between Rama Dasu and Thyagarajar and said how the latter followed the same patterns of Rama Dasu in his own compositions.Bhavamulona by Annamayya was rendered before he took takkuvemi manaku ramud u of Rama Dasu with a fast tempo. The main attraction was kharaharapriya. The artiste explored the ragam by bringing out some good and classical phrases and sung Annamayya's Prakkala Nilabadi with good sancharas and sangathis, thus making it very attractive.Seshadri's son Rajan supported him on the violin and Vasu was on the Mridangam and Janardhan on the ghatam.The concert concluded with some melodious Kshetrayya Padams like kashiki poyane in mukhari, aligithe in anandabhairavi. The concert on the whole gave glimpses of the three vaggeyakara's and their sangeetha and sahitya similarities amongst them.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/11/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/11/26/stories/2010112650300200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/11/26/images/2010112650300201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusic Concert Komanduri Seshadri during his performance at Ravindra Bharathi.
p14
ss.