(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSuperstructure on solid base
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKIntuition and instinct go a long way in giving a flashy orientation to exposition by Gayatri, while her sister Ranjani's presentation is plain-faced. In their performance for the Krishna Gana Sabha, this dichotomy came to the surface in the Sankarabharanam alapana. Ranjani cleared the ground up to the madhyama sthayi shadja for Gayatri to take over to build a dazzling high-rise architectural edifice in the tara sthayi. The kirtana was "Manasu Swaadeena." Gayatri was the sheet-anchor of the performance appeal.Earlier Gayatri sang Mukhari draping it with respectability followed by the Kirtana "Entanine." The sisters have perfected the technique of imparting frenetic tempo in interpreting kirtanas.Charumathi Raghuraman, on the violin, in her solo of Sankarabharanam, drew rapt attention by selective sancharas. Manoj Siva was the mridangist who by familiarity with the sisters' technique lent anticipatory support. Guru Prasad (ghatam) had limited solo role.Fast pacedA lethargic Dwijavanti (Cheta Sri), a ferocious Begada alapana (Vaa Vaa Muruga Vaa) and a somewhat sedate Todi (Enduku Dayaraadura) constituted the thrust of T. M. Krishna's performance.He summoned all his musical resources and local cleverness to impart ardour to his alapanas. The tara sthayi excursions interspersed with high decibel sancharas have become his current passion.M. A. Krishnaswamy, the violinist, in his solo versions of Begada and Todi emphasised how music's appeal gets enhanced when the sound is softened.Arun Prakash (mridangam) and V. Suresh (ghatam) in their tani played teasingly tricky pattern.GracefulYoung Aiswarya Vidya Raghunath ensured in her recital that manodharma and expression were in harmony.This came to the fore in the songs "Chera Rava" (Ritigowla) and "Bala Gopala" (Bhairavi with an alapana). There was an easy grace that lighted up the quality of her presentation.Porur Anantakrishnan (violin) Harikumar (mridangam) and Chandrasekara Sarma (ghatam) acquitted themselves as good accompanists.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/26/stories/2005082602910500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/26/images/2005082602910501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFAST TEMPO: Ranjani and Gayatri
p14
ss.