(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VErudition on display
p3
sVnews
p4
VNoted music sabha, Vigjnana Samithi of Khairatabad organised a vocal recital of Komanduri Seshadri on Saturday. He was accompanied by N.C.Ananthakrishna on violin, S.Aravind on mridangam and B.Janardan on ghatam. Seshadri went into a demonstrative mo\u000aod and displayed his erudition and scholarship in trying to educate the audience as to how great the Thyagaraja compositions are He explained the intricacies of the compositions of the saint poet but took care that his flow of music continued, maintaining the mood of the concert. For example he went for the composition of Ramadasu first, fore runner of Thyagaraja -Paluke Bangaramayenaand explained the ragaAnandabhairavi, Ramadas set his composition in, in bothArohanaandAvarohanascales. But his repertoire consisted more of Thyagaraja compositions. He rendered Pallavis of some kirtanas and demonstrated how each of them carried the ragaBhavaand its scal\u000ae. He rendered these compositions of Thygarajaya, enjoying every bit of the line himself, sharing that pleasure with audience. He also spoke of the grammar that Thygaraja used with perfection like theYatiandPrasa,\u000a Chandasssu and the command of language, everything contributing to the appeal of aKavya. He also followed the concert principle -Adi NataandAnthya Surati- opening his concert with anata raga kritiand ending it with Surati piece. His scholarship and taste for beauty were also reflected in it. The composition he chose was Thygagaraja&#8217;sKaddanu Variki. He used it for a demonstrativene reval,Nidura Nirakarinchiand then followed with a neatswaraprasthara.Dorakunain Bilahari with raga essay,nerevalandswaramand Shyama Sastry&#8217;\u000a;sMayammaiin Ahiri were other notable krities. He also gave equal importance to another raga Kanada with the composition was of Dikshitar-Mamava Sada Jananiwas his choice. There werenerevalan\u000adsraprastharatoo. Other notable numbers were an Abheri piece andUyyalalugavayyainNeelambari.For a change, the Brahmotsavas of Lord Venkateswara conducted by the TTD at the temple of Venkateswara at Himayat Nagar, gave opportunity for some of the noted vocalists of the twin cities to present their concerts at this venue. Each concert was arranged at the end of the day after the traditional poojas to the presiding deity. Those figured in the festival concerts were Komanduri Seshadri, Hyderabad Sisters - Lalitha and Haripriya, Hyderabad Brothers - Seshachari and Raghavachari and Dr.S.K.Venkatachari. The accompanists to each of these concerts were a known talent.Seshadri, a veteran in the field gave a scholarly concert in the company of Anantha Souri Rajan on violin, Kapa Srinivasa Rao on mridangam and B.Janardan on ghatam. His choice ragas on this occasion wereAnanda BhairaviforMari Vere Gati EvarammainMisrachapuandSimhendra MadhyamamforPamarajana Paaliniand the special effort Poorvi Kalyani (Paramapavana Rama of Ramanadhapuram Srinivasa Iyyengar). There\u000a were Annamayya compositions too as prayers to Lord Venkateswara.Hyderabad Sisters Lalitha and Haripriya were as usual at their best and concentrated more on devotionals on the deity. They were in the company of Poosarla Manorama on violin and Aravind on mridangam. Lathangi was their main presentation, giving a total picture of the raga. The composition was Patnam&#8217;sAparadhamulanniyuwith elaboratenerevalandswara prastharatoo. Annamacharya compositions dominated.Hyderabad Brothers Seshachari and Raghavachari chose Bilahari as their main offering to the Lord and the compositionDorakuna Ituvanti Sevawas appropriate rendition expressing their happiness in serving the Lord, musically. Dr.S.K.\u000aVenkatachari, a lecturer in music at Telugu University, featured on the last day.  His repertoire is totally filled with compositions on the lord whose Brahamotsavas are being celebrated. He even chose an Annamacharya compositionAlarulu Ku\u000ariyagafor his main raga effortSankarabharanam.This was in praise of Alimelumanga, Lord&#8217;s consort. He opened with Dikshitar&#8217;sVenkata Girisamin Surati followed bySrinivasa Varadayakain Natakuranji.There were some more compositions of Annamachary\u000aa all in praise of the Lord.Thus concluded the musical tribute to the Lord Venkateswara in the auspicious season of Brahmotsavas.G.SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/06/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/06/29/stories/2007062951110300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.