(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTreatment is now a song!
p3
sVnews
p4
VDr. Rie Takahashi and Dr. J.H.Miller of the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), have mapped the Huntingtin protein (a mutation of which results in Huntington&#8217;s disease) on to musical notes.All human cells contain the Huntingtin protein, which contains within it the amino acid - glutamine. In those with Huntington&#8217;s disease, a neuro degenerative disorder, there is an excess of glutamine in a particular segment of the protein.When they started work on their protein music, Miller and Takahashi wanted to be faithful to the science of biology without compromising on the aesthetics of music. Proteins are composed of amino acids. There are 20 amino acids.Earlier attempts at translating amino acids into music resulted in unmusical scores, because a single note spanned more than two octaves.So instead of a single note, Miller and Takahashi assigned a triad ( a three-note chord) to each amino acid. They paired similar amino acids together, but assigned different chords to them.So for similar amino acids like tyrosine and phenylalanine, while tyrosine was assigned G major root chord, phenylalanine was assigned G major first inversion chord.Here are the Carnatic music equivalents:G major root chord: G B DCarnatic music : Sa, Ga2, Pa G major first inversion chord: B D G Carnatic music : Ga2, Pa, SaCodons specify amino acids. Every organism has a unique codon distribution. This shows how frequently a codon is used to specify an amino acid. Takahashi and Miller used codon distribution (based on frequency per 1000) to get the rhythmic component of their music. If the codon distribution is in the range of say 0 to 11, then the time value or duration assigned to a chord would be one-eighth of a whole note. If the frequency is in the range of 11 to 21, the time assigned would be one-fourth of a whole note. The more common the codon, the longer will be the duration assigned to a chord.When you listen to the music Miller and Takahashi have made for the beginning segment of the Huntingtin protein, you hear a repetitive &#8216;bong&#8217; like the striking of a clock. You hear this 21 times, and this represents the repetitive glutamines in the case of a normal individual. The non-repetitive stretches represent the polyprolines. The repetitive notes can easily be distinguished even by those untrained in music.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/22/stories/2008022251440500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.