(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBrothers strum up a storm
p3
sVnews
p4
VThey play music. They also play with music. As the brothers Ganesh and Kumaresh play their violins, one gets swayed not because of the sound levels but because of the need to search for the Carnatic element in this new style presentation. It is a kind of quiz for the audience to track the classicalragathat they were playing in a different format. Indeed, their weaving of pure music is based on pureragalines they took up. But an audience which is trained to listen to thepallaviof a Thayagarajakriti, detect the raga and join in  to sing. It is not possible in this case.Their style of presentation resembles a bit of jazz. The accompanying instruments are not the violin and the mridangam but jazz drums, keyboard and a guitar, with talented players delivering goods . The duo called it `Carnatic Chillers' and came out with a  CD. Well, this was not music for the orthodox, but music for the present generation of youngsters who have opened up to western music. The brothers gave this chiller music as part of the two day - Icfai Music Festival - 2007, sponsored by Alfa Foundation and presented by South Indian Cultural Association. This festival was held at Ravindra Bharati in aid of their humanitarian projects particularly for the under-privileged children. Brothers and once child prodigies, Ganesh and Kumaresh, developed a unique musical style of their own, as they grew up, after winning many accolades and awards, that allows displaying all their innate virtuosi skills.The opening raga is traditionalNattai, which gave a taste of what was going to come. But the raga picture got lost in the drums and guitar base and keyboard's supply of melodic bits. Sometimes there were duet bits between the brothers, with an addition of vocalism by Ganesh. Most of the thematic built sounds were more like rhythmicswarabuilt, resembling a pre-setswaraprasthara. At times, the play also brought in Hindusthani musical touch, with melodic lilt. The compositions ended in rhythmic cycles.RagaHindolamhad this fantasy touch. It was done well. The first raga born out of Samaveda isKharaharapriya. In dealing with this, the violinist duo sought out the company of well-known mridangam player D. S. R. Murthy. Perhaps this was the best piece of the concert for the reason that this carnatic traditional instrument brought in the carnatic flavour. His support was brilliant and matched the mood of the concert. ThetaniAvartanambetween mridangam and drums was a show to watch. The drummer also displayed his great skills and knowledge in playing morsing, adding that to thetanipart. Then the vocalist in Ganesh came out to render a Telugu song written by Vennelakanti, set inKedaragowla. Then there was a RamadaskirtanaO Rama Neenama Menta Ruchira. Ganesh sang it giving it a bit of folk touch and concluded with a Hindibhajan. The overall appeal of the concert was a kind of novel experience to the mixed audience of SICA and the sponsoring associations.G. SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601390300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/26/images/2007012601390301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBROTHERS IN ARMS Ganesh and Kumaresh's concert was a novel experience.
p14
ss.