(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn the stage, in the rain
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAThe Indian psyche is so conditioned with the swaras of monsoon ragas that as soon we hear them, we at once think of dark clouds or the fascination of rain showers. This past weekend, as no trace of clouds or rain cheered the parched city, the best bet was to evoke the God of rain with monsoon melodies. The Banyan Tree presentation, Barkha Ritu  -   Rains & Ragas, held at Ficci auditorium, seems to have done just that. No wonder the rains came pouring down! Conceived and managed by Banyan Tree and sponsored by UTI Securities and SRS, Barkha Ritu presented a vocal recital by Ustad Rashid Khan and a sitar-sarod jugalbandi by Ustad Shujaat Khan and Tejendra Narayan Majumdar respectively. They sang and played different kinds of Malhars, the most popular ragas of the rainy season.The concept of raga, an intuitive perception of abstract beauty, is unique to the Indian musical tradition. The main feature of a raga is aesthetic appeal and its charming effect on the minds of living beings. One of the distinctive features of the Hindustani raga system is the time theory, the traditional association of individual raga with the particular hour of the day and night and with the particular season of the year. The seasonal ragas can be sung or played, without this time restriction, any time during their designated season. Monsoon melodies belong to the rainy season.Megh MalharUstad Rashid Khan gave a flying start to Barkha Ritu with a polished, well packed and aesthetically pleasing vocal rendering of Megh Malhar in a voice that exuded flexibility, grace and feeling, also displaying impressive range.Megh is one of the original six ragas of Hindustani music. This audav (pentatonic) raga omits Gandhar and Dhaivat and uses both the Nishads, the sharp one in ascending and the flat one in the descending order. Being a pentatonic raga, it is obviously different from the other kinds of Malhars. This raga is close to Sarang, therefore a performer has to maintain its distinct identity. The slow exposition of the raga, with the famous bandish (composition) in Jhap tala, "Garaj ghata ghana... " was evenly balanced with the fast impulses, specially the tans, which had compact integrated design and pattern and were slickly executed.The drut khayal, "Garj garaj chamakat daamini", which depicted the dark clouds, the lightening and thunder, and the rainy showers in its poetry, was set to Teen tala. Rashid was able to produce all these effects in his vibrant sargams and varied taans.Rashid concluded his vocal recital with a tarana in the raga Desh. His guru Ustad Nisar Hussain Khan was known for his tremendous repertoire of tarana compositions. One could feel at places the typical thumri ang treatment in his tarana that showed his romantic bent  as well. Mehmood Dhaulpuri's harmonium mirrored every nuance of the versatile vocalist. Yogesh Samsi was equally inspired in his tabla accompaniment.Ustad Shujaat Husain Khan and Tejendra Narayan Majumdar chose raga Miyan Ki Malhar for their jugalbandi. It was a unique kind of jugalbandi because both the artistes belong to different gharanas. Shujaat being the son and disciple of the legendary Ustad Vilayat Khan and Tejendra a disciple of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan represents the Maihar gharana. The tonal quality of their respective instrument also sounded totally different, but that was the additional attraction of their concert.The detailed alap, jod and jhaala created the atmosphere of this melodious monsoon melody before they started the slow Masitkhani gat set to Teen tala. It was a beautiful dialogue between the two. Shujaat would add a little phrase to enrich and exhort when Tejendra took his turn to play, and Tejendra would follow him in a lower octave when Shujaat played. The raga was dealt with in great detail with a slow and a fast composition accompanied charmingly by Sandip Das on the tabla. The clarity of his `Na Dhin Dhin Na' was especially commendable in the jet speed jhala,  with which the concert culminated.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/14/stories/2006071401820200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/14/images/2006071401820201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDOUBLY DELECTABLE Shujaat Husain Khan on the sitar and Tejendra Narayan Majumdar on the sarod with Sandip Das on the tabla
p14
ss.