(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOptimum impact
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Guru Ganayogi Panchakshara Sangeeth Yogashram Trust, recently held a series of Hindustani concerts featuring artists from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kolkata and Chennai to mark the birth anniversaries of Hanagal Kumara Yogi, Panchakshara Gawai and Pt. Puttaraj Gawai.Vocalist Ruchira Kale, a disciple of Dilip Kale (father) and Alka Deo Marulkar (Jaipur Gharana), proved her mettle from the word go with an evocative Mian Malhar. Languorous glides and a powerful voice launched a vilambit with the intermittent evening drizzle.Slides caressing the pancham-gandhar curves were fluid, while voice made the most of the intricate fretwork of anu swaras.The delicacy of tonal chiaroscuro in detailed passages was offset by the open-throated, rock-steady karvais at the komal nishadh, tivra rishabh and the passages that pierced a path to the tara sthayi pancham. Punch and puissance propelled the taans to achieve optimal aural impact in the dhrut.Rooted in native flavour, the abhang &#8216;Sundara Te Dhyan' was brushed with poignant touches. The following piece explored facets of a Charukesi-based composition with effortless ease. &#8216;Bhaaro Pranaam,' a Meera bhajan made famous by Kishori Amonkar hit the high notes with grace and emotive strength. Veereshwar Madri (violin) and M.N. Muneesh (tabla) set the vocalist at ease with their unobtrusive support.Stamp of Kirana gharanaImbibing and internalising the rich traditions of Dharwar, vocalist Kumar Mardur studied under his father Somanath Mardur and went on to receive advanced training from Pt. Firoz Dasturji. The artist's elaboration of raag Kedar bore the unmistakeable stamp of the Kirana gharana in terms of rustic appeal, powerful voice throw and interpretative fervour.Rousing sancharas sprang from the madhya sthayi to hold aloft the sumptuous tara sthayi fabric that rippled with myriad motifs.The Bhairavi composition crackled with raw power, the halt at the komal rishabh in the tara sthayi yielding insights into swara bheda flights that segued into a poignant tryst with the tivra gandhar.Satish Kolli (harmonium) and Ravindra Yavagal (tabla) scored with their accompaniment that followed vocal twists and turns with brilliant anticipation and agility.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/03/stories/2010090351260300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/03/images/2010090351260301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODIC:Ruchira Kale and (below) and Kumar Mardur.
p14
ss.