(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCelebrating Thyagaraja's creations
p3
sVnews
p4
VSrirama Gana Sabha, one of the oldest music sabhas of the twin cities,held its  38th anniversary celebrations andaradhanaof Thyagaraja for 12 days. The singers were well chosen combining a sprinkling of young and up and coming talent, along with senior musicians of repute, like Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, who inaugurated the festival, D. V. Mohana Krishna, Vasa Gopinatha Rao, S. K. Venkatachari and others.Mohana Krishna, disciple of Mangalampalli Balamuralikrisha,  almost reflects his guru in all  aspects ofragadelineation,kirtanarendition,neravu, swarakalpanaand other technical features of the concert. The innovations of his guru are also found in Mohana Krishna's own flair. His concert  had impressive numbers and he opened withChala Kallaladukonnain Arabhi that  created a musical atmosphere in his pleasing style of rendition. Then he renderedSogasu Chooda Taramain Kannada Gowla in which theragaandsahityahad vivid appeal.Sara Sara Samaraika Veerain Kuntalavarali, was an added attraction and at once creative. The main rendition was Panthuvarali, which he presented  a melodic lilt. The kirtana he chose in this wasSiva Siva Yanarada. This was enriched with anerevaland fluentswara prastharacarrying theraga bhava. M. Suryadeepti on violin and Nemani Somayajulu on mridangam lent support.The morning show had some prodigious talent. Vasa Gopinatha Rao's students - Vasa Pallavi, Iswarya and Anusha rendered together a few compositions of Thyagaraja. A Hindola number-Smajavaragamana- was the highlight. The evening was marked by the vocal concert of a senior artiste, Kamala Ramani. She opened her recital withKantajoodumiinVachaspati.Sankarabharanamwas the main melody of the concert, withEnduku Peddalaas a chosen piece in it along with a detailed raga essay,neravalandswara prasthara. Anantha Krishna on violin and Kapa Srinivasa Rao on mridangam lent good support.The Sunday was given to young students of music who rendered Thyagaraja's compositions. The evening featured Emani Lalitha Krishna on veena. She is a well knowngottu vadyaexponent too. She entertained the audience with Ranjani essay withtanambefore going for itskriti Durmargachara.Another notable concert of the festival was that of S. K. Vekatachari, a disciple of Nookala, he is an experienced vocalist and had a rich repertoire. S. V. Ramanamurthy on violin and S. V. Pratap on mridangam lent support, adding their own erudition. Venkatachari opened withTulasidalamulacheinMayamalava Gowlaand went for popular numberBantureethiinHamsanadam. Sogasuga Mridanga Talamu in Sriranjani was an enjoyablekritirendition. AfterNanuganna Talliin Sindhukannada, he went for Kalyani delineation, which he did well.Vasudevayaniwas his choice in this, which was presented along with a scholarlyswarakalpana. There was also another majorraga Kharaharapriyafor the popularkritiChakkani Rajamargamualong withneravuandswarakalpana. The style of rendition of these main pieces brought into focus his vast experience.That evening began with a vocal duet by Sundari Janakiraman and Kapilavayi Lalitha. B. Pawan Singh on violin and Radhakrishna on mridangam lent support.  Koniki Satyanarayana, a septuagenarian musician and the man behind the festival is organising the huge show with dedication.G.SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/09/stories/2007020901170300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.