(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn her elements
p3
sVnews
p4
VC arnatic music being essentially multi-lingual, performing it vocally in terms of specific themes with songs which are exclusively in the same language is fraught with the risk of making the music sound rather tedious. This is particularly true if the language happens to be Tamil, because of its harder texture in comparison with Sanskrit or Telugu. And the risk is even greater if all or most of the songs featured in a concert are the works of a single composer and therefore tend to sound alike. Such an exercise calls for a judicious selection of songs and a very high standard of performance in order to capture the listeners' attention and ensure their full concentration. Last year Geetha Raja had given such a captivating recital featuring the compositions of Papanasam Sivan exclusively, at the Narada Gana Sabha.And a few days ago she gave an earnest and powerful performance of a fine selection of Gopalakrishna Bharati's Tamil songs on Lord Siva, at the Music Academy.If you closed your eyes and listened, you could well imagine that it was veteran violinist M. S. Gopalakrishnan who was accompanying Geetha Raja. But, of course, you knew it was his daughter and prime disciple Narmadha. She usually restrains her MSG touches, when she performs as an accompanist; but this time she let them have a free flow, which is very desirable because the performance raises the bar not only for herself but also for the vocalist. Sure enough, the vocalist was in her elements, with fine raga alapanas and swara improvisations for a couple of compositions &#8216;Sattrae Vilagiyirum Pillaai' in Poorvikalyani, and &#8216;Tiruvadi Charanam' in Khambodi, and simpler but very forceful versions of several other songs.Vibrant showAnd with J. Vaidyanathan playing the mridangam with his usual elegance, the performance of the trio had a vibrant quality which effectively balanced the extremely slow tempo which was adopted throughout the recital for preserving the distinctly meditative quality of the composer's vision.A notable thing about the concert was the fine quality of the sound system and control. In particular, the sruti sounded unusually clear and sensitive, with a well-tuned tambura in place and no electronic sruti-box. Quite intriguingly, the true highlights of the concert weren't really the more elaborate numbers in the middle, but the frequently-heard composition, &#8216;Sabaapathikku,' in Abhogi (which came at an early stage), and the Nandanar song, &#8216;Varugalaamo?' in Manji (which was the intensely moving climax of the whole recital).The Abhogi song made me recall Aruna Sairam's versions of it in different concerts - which wasn't surprising, given the fact that she and Geetha are sisters-in-law who had stayed in the same house (in Bombay) and learnt music together (from Brindamma) once upon a time! As for &#8216;Varugalaamo,' I couldn't help recalling that it was also the emotionally gripping climax of a wonderful concert given by M.D. Ramanathan, the grandmaster of meditative music, at the Shanmukhananda Sabha in Bombay 40 years ago.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/07/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/07/30/stories/2010073051040400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/07/30/images/2010073051040401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VA MELODIC EXERCISE: Geetha Raja with Narmadha and J. Vaidyanathan.
p14
ss.