(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUpholding a rich musical legacy
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Tamizh Isai Sangam, Erode (run by the Anjaneyar Charitable Trust), gave an aural feast by engaging a jugalbandi (Kural Kuzhal Inaintha Isai) on December 6 in their Anjaneya park.The jugalbandi team was constituted by Karthikeyan upholding the rich heritage of flute Mali, through Dr. Ramani, his guru, vocal concert by Savitha and violin recital of Puran Vaidyanathan.Brimming with confidence, the trio started their jugalbandi with Tamizh songs, in general, and the songs of Bharatiar, in particular, in their menu.The kutcheri began with Mayavaram Sastri's composition &#8216;Jayati Jayati Bharata Mata' (song popularised by GNB). This was followed by Bharatiar's &#8216;Thayin Manikkodi Paareer,' a beautiful raga garland.Enjoyable recitationNext Mohanam was taken up for elaboration. The recital of Mohanam on the flute was enjoyable, with bhava laden phrases along with speedy ones, confined to limits.The mandhara stayi sancharas made the audience inhale the fragrance of Mali's music. Savitha gave a beautiful rendition of Mohanam in the style of her guru DKJ.The violinist, Purna Vaidyanathan discharged her duties well by making a mark as an accompanist.After the rendition of Mohanam, Bharatiar's song &#8216;Vetri Ettu Dhikkum Etta Kottu Murasae' was rendered, which reminded one of DKP.The song was concluded with a beautiful decoration of kalpanaswaras. The ragam, tanam, pallavi in Nattakurinji was the main item.The three shared the raga in equal proportion. The flautist played vilambakala and madhayama kala prayogas up to the middle panchamam and the vocalist took charge of the remaining part with her scintillating voice, and when her turn came, the violinist painted a beautiful picture of the gamut of the raga.Tradition has it that when the main artist sings or plays kalpanaswaras in a particular raga during the rendition of kalpananswaras in different ragas, it is incumbent on the accompanists to do their part in the same raga without exercising their own option. However this jugalbandi headed by Karthikeyan the flautist, deviated from it. All of them rendered kalpanaswaras in different ragas and enthralled the audience.The niraval in two degrees, the presentation of the pallavi in three degrees of speed along with tisram bore testimony to their skill and proper homework.The thani by the percussion artists was sweet though short. &#8216;Vandhe Matharam' (ragamalika), &#8216;Aaduvome Palluppaduvome,' &#8216;Chinnan Chirukiliye' and &#8216;Santhi Nilava Vendum' were enjoyable tukkadas. The perfect co-ordination among the artists on the dais made the jugalbandi a very successful one.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121850660300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.