(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRevealing fete of Vaggeyakara music
p3
sVnews
p4
VA. RAMALINGA SASTRYA five-day fete of Vaggeyakara music was organised at Kalabharathi by the Andhra Music Academy. The first day was reserved for for Bhadrachala Ramdass and Munipalle Subrahmanya Kavi and the following days for Annamayya, Thyagaraja, Shyama Sastry and \u000aDikshitar in that order.Ever since its inception in 2000 by Sivaganga Sangeetha Parishad Charitable Trust of Sadguru Sriman K. Sivananda Murty, the Academy is known for its strides conducting free classes in carnatic music, organising music festivals, Sarada Sangeetotsavam and honouring artistes by conferring its Sangeetha/Natya Vidyanidhi Award every year.The fete in Kalabharathi, the first in the name of Vaggeyakaras to highlight their contribution nonpareil to the firmaments of literature and music, was inaugurated by the Sadguru.Rendering of Ramdass and Adhyatma Ramayana kirtanas by noted music composers and exponents of carnatic vocal Modumoodi Sudhakar and his wife Anjana, and Sangeetha Lakshya Lakshana Vidwanmani Pemmaraju Surya Rao (Vijayawada) marked the inaugural evening. While Ch. Sanyasi Rao on violin and K. Sai Giridhar on mridangam lent support to Sudhakar, Kokkanda Subrahmanya Sarma on violin and Mandapaka Nagalakshmi on mridangam exquisitely accompanied Surya Rao, who  appeared as an epitome of reverential regard for the elated cadence embedded in the lyrics in the simplest possible idiom in Sanskrit and Telugu and the soul stirring tradition of their musical rendition handed down the ages. Making Sahitya-Sangeetha Naadanu Sandhanam his import with soulful involvement, he sang his way deep into the hearts of all alike in the houseful auditorium.The prelude of analytical commentary replete with discernible nuances of every kirtana by Perala Balamurali Krishna contributed to the splendour. Almost a similar fervour filled the auditorium while G. Balakrishna Prasad from the TTD devoutly rendered about a score of Annamayya&#8217;s compositions in the company of P. Nageswara Rao on violin and MLN Raju on mridangam on the next evening.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/06/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/06/29/stories/2007062951080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.