(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDisplaying manodharma
p3
sVnews
p4
VGeetanjali has been well trained by Satyanarayana of Machilipatnam, Annavarapu Ramaswamy of Vijayawada and Lalitha of the Hyderabad Sisters. Geetanjali has refined musical instincts, suitable for a high quality performance. She displayed her musical talentin her Carnatic vocal, she presented for Vamsee Art theatres at Thygaraya Gana Sabha's mini auditorium. She was in the company of Kolanka Anil Kumar on violin and Sridharachari on mridangam. The well proportioned alapanas of Hamsadhwani (Vatapi) and Shanmukhapriya (Vallinayakasya) displayed her sensitive manodharma with impressive sancharies. The kirtana renditions were by themselves a specialty for she is known to present with perfect sahitya expression with depth and appeal.The Sri Raga varnam that flagged off her show accelerated through exercising swaras, brought in the Hamsadhwani, she treated with devotion-filled mood to suit the appeal of Vatapi Ganapathim, paying obeisance to Lord of the remover of obstacles. The swarakalpana in it showed her flair for the rhythmic syllables. Marugelara in Jayantisri and Nenarunchinanu in Malavi were quickies creating atmosphere for the elaborate delineation of exotic Shanmukhapriya. The melody was presented with plenty of vinyasas with systematically arranged sancharis, scanning the abundant scope of the raga with a graphic imagery. The felicity of her voice was once again evident in the expressive presentation of the kriti Vallinayakasya and also in the Sahitya Prasthara ( nereval) that followed. The swarakalpana again mirrored her felicity of her vocal flow and manodharma as well adding crispness. Her tutelage under Lalitha stood by her in good stead in this aspect. Violinist Anil Kumar paid equal attention to his complementary approach in building his own solo version of the same raga and also the swarakalpana part that accentuated the number's appeal. Sridharachari's mridangam solo was a display of his percussive art with rhythmic idioms.Nagumomu in Abheri and Endaro in Sriragam (rendered on request) were pleasing presentations.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/30/stories/2010043050210300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/30/images/2010043050210301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGeetanjali
p14
ss.