(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTalented twosome
p3
sVnews
p4
VYet another album featuring talent hunt winners is here, and this time around, it is not Indian idol, but the winners of Sony Entertainment Television'sFame Gurukul. Qazi Touqeer and Ruprekha Banerjee, who have been crowned Fame Jodi, have just hit the stores with their debut album titledQazi, Ruprekha Jodi No. 1. Read on to know more about thejodi's experiences and future plans.These days, all original music in Indipop is thanks to talent hunts. Do you feel this is an encouraging trend?Qazi:Absolutely. Talent hunts are the most democratic form of selecting authentic music talent. Every day in Mumbai, people line up outside the homes of music directors, in pursuit of a singing career. While some manage to get asifarish, others get lost in the crowd. Talent hunts provide a short cut to those who deserve it. A systematic process of elimination ensures that the best talent does not go unnoticed.Do you feel that you are going to get lost among other talent hunt winners?Qazi:From the word go, I have only been enjoying my work.  I have sung a total of 34 songs during Fame Gurukul. It was tough on stage, but in the recording room, you have takes and retakes, so making the album was pretty smooth.Ruprekha:Fame Gurukul gave me a tremendous amount of confidence which is reflected in my songs.How would you define the music of your album?Qazi:I have no formal training in music. I have a passion for music and all my emotions comedil se.Ruprekha:The album defines us as individuals, and also brings us together as artistes.What are your plans?Qazi:Movies, movies and only movies. I always wanted to be an actor, and it has been a sea change for me when I was selected in a musical talent hunt. Playback singing is not on my priority list at all. I am looking to be an actor, and Fame Gurukul has exposed me to the entertainment industry, and I am planning to take my career to a new level.Ruprekha:Playback singing. It has always been my dream. As a child, I have been idolising playback singers, and it gives me an extreme thrill if my voice would fit an actor's role in a film. I will be the voice of that actor. This idea drove me to participate in the talent hunt.A. VISHNUBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/23/stories/2005122301320100.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/23/images/2005122301320101.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VON A SONG Qazi Touqeer and Ruprekha Banerjee.
p14
ss.