(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPedagogue par excellence
p3
sVnews
p4
VS. SIVAKUMARA living tradition influences our inner faculties, humanises our nature and lifts us to a higher level &#151;  Sarvepalli RadhakrishnanPalakkad Mani Iyer has this much to say about him: "Those under his tutelage will become stalwarts" (Avar kitta sollindava ellarum nanna varuva). Sri Semmangudi speaks of him  as one who performed Vidhya Dhaanam. Sri Yagnyaraman (Krishna Gana Sabha) addresses him as the grand old teacher. The person  is Kumbakonam Rajappa Iyer. His mission in life has been the dissemination of mridanga vidhya.  His methods (paadam) had a certain adaptable quality  were acceptable to other schools. He meted out no  preferential treatment &#151;   to him all his students were a single  community. He could systematically raise the level of a novice by persuading those nimble fingers to its task and applying some intuitive corrective measures.His disciples are well known professional artistes on the mridangam, ghatam or kanjira. Srimushnam Raja Rao, K.R. Ganesh (son), Balashankar, Umayalpuram Mali, Umayalpuram V. Kalyanaraman, Palani Kumar, Ganapathy Raman, Vijay Siva, Manoj Siva, Madipakkam Murali, Adambakkam Shankar , Kalakkadu Srinivasan &#151;  the list could go on.Treasuring the artRajappa Iyer has accompanied an incredible  cross section of masters such as  Ariyakudi, Sivan, T. K. Rangachari, M. D. Ramanathan, Balamuralikrishna, Chittibabu, Lalgudi Jayaraman and Ramani apart from giving many lec-dems on mridangam and ghatam playing techniques.Born in 1916 at Kumbakonam, Rajappa Iyer had as his mentor Rama Sadhu from whom he learnt yogaabyaasam and practised it with firm conviction.  He treasured art and turned away from auditing  to become a mridangist. He learnt from Azhaganambi Pillai and after his demise, from Saakotttai Rangu Iyengar. Rajappa Iyer is also an expert in ghatam fingering and in fact made his debut as the second percussion (ghatam-upa-pakka vadhyam) accompanist to Madurai Maariappa Swamigal.Saakottai Rangu Iyengar himself played the mridangam on that memorable day. Reminiscing about Azhaganambi Pillai he says nobody can even think of playing like Pillai for songs. Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer used to make  Pillai's accompaniment  a precondition. On one occasion while rendering `Dudukugala,' Viswanatha Iyer in a moment of forgetfulness kept singing the same line repeatedly. It was Pillai who helped him out &#151;  he played the next line on the mridangam! Of Saakottai Rangu Iyengar, Rajappa Iyer wishes to call him a `laya sithar'  who could sing well too. In a concert of Naina Pillai at Kumbakonam he was able to play a misra jathi jampai tala pallavi (10 aksharam, 4 kalai, ½ idam) impromptu! And then played a tani in same talam &#151;  he  could challenge and provoke.Disciples and gurusRajappa Iyer says that while there were many schools in existence after the names of giants such as  Azhaganambi Pillai, Saakottai Rangu Iyengar, Kutralam Sivavadivelu Pillai and Thanjavur Vaidhyanatha Iyer, at present the  main schools are those of Palakkad Mani Iyer, Palani Subramania Pillai, Ramanathapuram Murugaboopathy, Harihara Sharma, Thanjavur Upendran and Karaikudi Mani. It is our fortune that these gurus have given us more disciples than ever before and it is partly so because many are willing to take to the mridangam.Rajappa Iyer was always the most sought after presiding guru at arangetrams, and  not without reason. It was his routine  to meet  the parents of the fledglings and to advise them benignly. Hard work was his watchword for attaining depth and mastery. The rest he felt would follow.Honours galoreThe titles  that have come his way are Layavadya Kovida, Nadha Kanal, Mridanga Laya Mani, Sangeetha Seva Niratha, DKJ memorial award, TTK memorial award, a special honour by Colgate University of New York and Music Academy's Sangeeta Kala Acharya ( 2001).Yagnyaraman, mentions that Rajappa Iyer  has spent 50 years  teaching. He commenced his classes at the Krishna Gana Sabha in 1961. He was not  demoralised when the initial class strength was a mere two. The strength, in due course, increased to 95. He spent long hours with each student till he, as the teacher, was satisfied with the outcome. The prizes being awarded each year to a junior mridangam artiste, in the names of Saakottai Rangu Iyengar and Azhaganambi Pillai (Rajappa Iyer's gurus), have been instituted by Rajappa Iyer. Iyer is a man of unimpeachable integrity.  Sruthi Laya Kendra, in continuing with its yeoman service to senior artistes, honoured Rajappa Iyer in December 2005. In spite of his old age Rajappa Iyer was present to accept the honour and in his brief acceptance speech thanked Karaikudi Mani profusely for remembering him and organising the function.Another event is being organised by  Rajappa Iyer's disciples to celebrate his 90th birthday,  on January 10, at Narada Gana Sabha. A VCD and a book containing lessons from basics to kanda chapu thalam as enunciated by Rajappa Iyer, will be released on the occasion.(Inputs provided by Srimushnam Raja Rao, Ganapathi Raman, Ashwin Sridharan and K. R. Ganesh)Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010602940500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010602940501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRajappa Iyer
p14
ss.