(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOf a great `Parampara'
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARRevathi Krishnan's soloveenaconcert was the monsoon programme for Kalasagaram this month. Revathi belongs to the greatparamparaof Shivandam Pillai and has been one of the successful players of the present times, whenveenaplayers in general are on the decline. There are significantbaanis(styles) inveenaplaying amongst which Pillai's is considered to be one of the most reputed. It is, however, hard to say if Revathi has imbibed the style in its purity for the simple reason that she appears to be in a hurry in her playing (Madhyamakala). Nevertheless, the method was still pleasant and enjoyable. The one failure in such a speedy rendering is the loss ofgamakathat is so vital in Carnatic music and so fundamental in an instrument like theveena. In addition, Revathi uses themeettu(strokes) so liberally that the grace of playing  takes a beating.Veenais an instrument, which gains grace in slow playing, and it is a misfit for speedy  rendering. Impartinggayaka lakshanawould be an added advantage inveenaplaying. It would also be advisable if the player virtually sings at times to convey thesahithyaas some of the past players like Emani Shankra Sastry used to do.The concert had a mixed  fare of items but the order and sequence could have been better planned. For instance, the first few items were monotonously same in the sense that the rhythm or thekalapramanaas well asnadaiwere dreary and the contrast was strikingly wearisome. She started with avarnaminKamachand moved on toSri MahaganapathiinNaatai. Sadhinche, thePancharathnainArabhiadded fervour to the tempo. This was followed byDurmargacharainRanjani. All the items thus far  were in the samekalapramanaand inchathusra nadaiand for a connoisseur, it was  disappointing in terms of variety in rhythm. Introduction ofMisrachapu talaearlier would have added dignity to the concert. This feature of failure is common with contemporary artistes because most of the concert items are pre-arranged and the element of impulsivemanodharmaseldom plays its part. It was in the itemShankarabharanathat Revathi gained her competence and skill. The raga was played elaborately and had a good coverage although in its entirety, it cannot be said as outstanding. Thethanamwas reasonably good but she ought to include more varieties ofnadaisfor,thanamis an item, which has rhythmic ecstasy too. The items included severalrakthiragas asRagamalika, which was well received. The composition of Thyagaraja,Edutanilachithewas pleasingly presented. The percussion duo, Skanda Subranmanyam on themridangamand Somayajulu on theghatamhad a merry time as the concert basically was formatted to medium tempo. Thethaniwas pleasing and scholarly. The entire concert was well attended and rightly applauded.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/29/stories/2005072902050300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/29/images/2005072902050301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VENJOYABLE CONCERT The method in Revathi Krishnan's veena recital was pleasant, despite speedy rendering.
p14
ss.