(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VColourful 'n' sprightly
p3
sVnews
p4
VYakshagana by the artistes of Sri Mahaganapathi Yakshagana Mandali from Nidle at the University College of Fine arts was a thrilling show of vibrant sanchari and rhythmic chanda (D. Subramanya Bhat). The colourful aharya, hasta and pada sanchari by the young artistes were captivating. Vocal music by S. Ramakrishnaiah and maddala by Ganapathi Naik were sprightly.Mythological episodes are common in Yakshagana. The Epic of Jamabavati Kalyana (story of Syamanthaka Ratna) from Bhagavatha, was relevant with Ganesh Chaturthi just round the corner. Legend has it that it is inauspicious to look at the moon on the festival and the person who dares to violate this will have to live with charges of theft for the rest of one's life.The thrilling folk events and the vibrant sanchari of Prasena's (Sadasiva Kulal) journey to the forest for hunting was well depicted by the artistes. The prasanga was also peppered with some humorous lines. Sadasiva Kulal (Prasena) and Mahesh Maniyani as Vidhushaka excelled each other in exhibiting their skill. Nidle Govinda Bhat as Jambavantha, and Mohan Kumar Shetty as Krishna gave delectable performance. The Sringara bhava of Jambavati (played by Eswar Prasad) was an exceptional example of how the male artiste could excel in female roles.Mixed responseThe Bharathanatya ballet by Sahana Pradeep Bhat at Sri Krishnagana Sabha received mixed response. The young artiste with impressive angasoustava looked bright on the stage. Choreography of Saint Annamacharya's composition "Sriman Narayana" (raga Bahuli ) depicting Dasavatara mudras was unimpressive. This was followed by pada varnam of Voreyur Rajagopala Sharma in raga Atana. Impressive aharya, free flowing music and dance were entertaining. The interest and involvement of the youngsters from a remote place like Sirsi and the efforts of the Guru in teaching the youngsters were appreciableMysore and violinMysore is synonymous with violin thanks to the efforts of the late Tiramakudalu Chowdaiah. The tradition has survived through the efforts of talented artistes like Mysore Nagaraj and Dr. Manjunath. In fact, the violin duo have lots of interesting anecdotes to tell about the legendary Chowdiah. Under the aegis of Nrutyalaya Trust, at the renovated Mysore Vasudevacharya Bhavana, the violin duo's performance was action-packed with rhythmical gathi bedas in svara vinaysa from ati-mandra to shadja stayis.Though ragas such as Kapinarayani ("Sarasa Sama") Ananda Bhairavi, Sindu Bhairavi were delectable, the raga-tana-pallavi in Khambhoji ("Nayaka-Vinayaka-Gana Nayaka") was predominant in taking the concert to greater heights. The agility and homogeneity of the brothers was remarkable.Vidwan S. Sudarshan stole the show on mridanga with his pleasant-strokes and intricate tala-gathis while T.A. Ramanujam on morsing gave intermittent impressive interludes.B.S.S. RaoBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/16/stories/2005091603350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.