(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDevotional and meditative
p3
sVnews
p4
V`Prarthana' is the second of the devotional double CD album released by Music Today and is dedicated to Lord Rama. It is a part of their series of 10 albums, each dedicated to a deity. Prof. Vachaspati Maudgalya has rendered his expert guidance on the text and pronunciation. Impeccable work indeed!Ravindra Sathe and chorus in the first CD render the relatively unknown `Rama Gayathri' and the even rarer `Lakshmana Gayathri' and `Sita Gayathri.' Shekar Sen and Devki Pandit chant the mellifluously tuned ever-popular Sri Rama Ashtottarshatnam in Sanskrit.The strains of the flute by Rakesh Chaurasia, and Sanjay Vyas on the pakhwaj add value.The singers mentioned above are joined by Sadhana Sargam and Suresh Wadkar to chant the 44-minute `Sri Rama 108 Manka' in Hindi. This describes the entire Ramayana with the chorus repeating the refrain, `Ragupati Raghava Rajaram Patita Pavana Sitaram' after every eight lines.Shivkumar Sharma, the santoor maestro, has made use of soothing Hindustani ragas for this longest piece of the album.Nowhere does the music override devotion. On the other hand the fare is really meditative.The Gayathri mantras, once again, mark the beginning of the second CD, followed by a very powerful Sanskrit sloka, Shri Rama Rakshastotram.Emotional renderingSharma proves his experience in fitting the not-so-easy verses into a four-beat meter to a very emotional rendering by Wadkar and Devki.Shekar Sen's singing of the Brahmadevkrita Sri Rama Stuti to the accompaniment of santoor, electronic percussion and keyboards kindles spiritual feelings.Atreyakrit Sri Rama Stuti and Sri Ramashtakam have Sathe sincerely chanting them with religious fervour set to tisra nadai.`Sri Ram Chalisa' not often heard here is set to a folkish melody sung beautifully by Suresh Wadkar and Sadhana Sargam.Subhash Parab (keyboards), Girish Vishwa (dholak), Sunil (sitar), Chandrakanth Lakshpati (mandolin and banjo), Shashank Joshi (electronic percussion), Binoy Singh (guitar) and Salim Ajmeri (vibraphone) are the other musicians who have embellished the offering with their sincere playing.Credit must be given to the sound engineers Mahesh Amberkar and Avinash Oak for the perfect recording and mixing.An added advantage of this album is the excellently prepared booklet comprising all the slokas making it easy for devotees to chant alongside.Shivkumar Sharma's music is captivating, but nowhere does his musical expression dominate the spiritual fervour of the slokas.A collector's item, the albums are ideal for early morning listening.V. BALASUBRAMANIAMBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/16/stories/2007021600100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/02/16/images/2007021600100301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDedicated to Lord Rama.
p14
ss.