(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VExecuting melodic duets
p3
sVnews
p4
VSri Chandrasekharendra Sangeeta Educational Society, a sabha in Maredpally organised Thyagaraja aradhana for five days at Keyes High school.The first day saw a vocal duet by Carnatica Brothers K.N. Sashikiran and Ganesh who are the brothers of Ravikiran, the gottu vadyam maestro.The duo have contrasting styles in their approach.They were accompanied by Nagai Muralidharan on the violin, Tanjavur Murugabhoopathi on the mridangam and Somayajulu on the ghatam.The brothers began their recital with Kanada atatala varnam neranammithe. Teliya Leru Rama in Dhenuka was a good item and the duo got the best out of it. Sri Sankera guruvaram in Nagaswaravali was a good piece and was rendered in the right proportion.Ananda Bhairavi was detailed by Ganesh for a soothing raga for Thyagaraja Yoga Vaibhavam, a vilamba kala krithi presented in a good kalapramanam.Neevadane gana in Saranga was a fast number before they moved on to the main attraction of the day. Kharaharapriya was the ragam chosen.The duo tried well to maintain the ragam tempo. Un arumai teriyamal of Nadopasana Srinivas was the krithi with good swaram in it. The brothers took RTP for the day and took Poorvikalyani and went for an elaborate version of the ragam.Nagai Muralidharan, a senior violinist, did very well with his brilliant accompaniment. Muragabhoopathi on the mridangam and Nemani on the ghatam lent decent support and their tani was neat.Mesmerising mandolinOn the second day, the fest featured a mandolin duet. Raju and Nagamani, husband and wife, have a very fine touch on the mandolin. The chemistry among these two was strong and their concert planning was catchy, reflecting their creative talents.The couple began their recital with Kedaragowla varnam, followed by Raghunayaka in Hamsadwani with lively swarakalpanai. Bhajanaseyaradha in Dharmavathi was next to come. Later they took Mallari, a talam-oriented swarasahityam usually played by the nadaswara vidwans during the purrappadu of Lord during the Bramahotsavams. This is in the ragam Ghambheera Natai set to misra jhati triputa talam, and was elegantly presented with all the gathi variances.Pariyachakama in Vanaspathi was smoothly presented. A brief ragam of Nagaswaravali was presented for Padmanabha, a rare one with brief swaram.The main attraction of the day was RTP in Keeravani. The ragam by the duo was a treat to watch as both gave their best to maintain the expression of the ragam.The pallavi set in Khandajhathi triputa talam saw ragamalikai swaram in Nalinakanthi, Hamsanandi, Malayamarutam and Desh besides good mathematical exercises.The concluding items saw Raghuvamsa in Kadanakuthuhalam, Krishna nee begane in Yamuna Kalyani, and a thillana in Madhuvanthi. On the whole the concert was enjoyable and melodiously executed.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/02/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/02/26/stories/2010022650500300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/02/26/images/2010022650500301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHusband and wife duo Mandolin duet by Raju and Nagamani.
p14
ss.