(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn engaging vocal concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VV.V.S. Bhargava, one of promising young vocalists , figured in a pleasant concert last week at Kalavedika in the premises of Thyagaraya Gana Sabha's. Saptaswara, a sabha dedicated to classical music, organised this vocal concert, to mark Adi Sankaracharya's Jayanthi. As an eight year old, Bhargava went under the tutelage of his maternal grandfather, Tadepalli Srikantha Sastry, disciple of Parupalli Ramakrishnayya Pantulu. He is B-High grade artiste of AIR now. On this occasion he was accompanied by Peri Thyagaraju on violin and U. Kalivaraprasad on mridangam, both seasoned musicians.Bhargava exhibited good voice with considerable range. He began with Abhogi varnam Evari Bhodana in two speeds and set the mood of the concert and audience with his brisk rendition. Gajananayutham in Vegavahini ragam of Muthuswami Deekshitar in Aditalam was his choice to pay obeisance to the lord of obstacles. He then chose to render the popular number of Thyagaraja Nadatanumanisam in Chittaranjani. Intaparaka in Mayamalavagowla in Roopaka talam was followed with Swarakalpana. He chose Kamavardhani for the first raga expansion. The essay had all its prime beauties. Siva Siva Sivayanarada of Thyagaraja was presented with good visage. Arunachalanadham in Saranga, in Roopaka talam of Dikshitar served as a break before he took up Kharaharapriya as his main melody of the concert, for which he took considerable time to go through all important subtle nuances in its delineation. The raga delineation was praiseworthy for the way it turned out to be a well patterned essay in all the octaves. Kori Sevimparare one of Thyagaraja's Kovuri Panchartna kirtanas, was his swanky melodious number. The kriti rendition was with sahitya lucidity. The swarakalpana was quite expansive and packed with some rhythmic syllables.Violinist Peri Thyagaraju, a seasoned hand, gave the complementary touch. Tani avartanam by the mridangam player was a well qualified presentation.Mandugonare a Ramadasu kirtana in Khamas was the concluding number of the concert.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/13/stories/2011051350060200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/13/images/2011051350060201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VYoung talent S.S. Bhargava.
p14
ss.