(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUpbeat recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagarams' effort to encourage up-and-coming artistes of the younger generation deserves all praise. The duet vocal concert of  teenage sisters, Bhairavi and Malavi arranged last week was one such. Ambika Prasad accompanied them on the violin while the mridangam was played by Sai Ram from Delhi.Having undergone training under stalwarts, they have achieved the traditional style and evidently are capable of taking on any complex treatise. In a situation like duet singing, unwittingly comparisons crop up however undesired. In that context, Bhairavi evidently has a more mature approach both in terms of her interpretation, style and confidence while Malavi has more balanced approach. Again the voice of Bhairavi is richer while the scholarship of the latter is more obvious.  They have an excellent sense ofsrutialthough in terms of manodharma music, they need more experience. This is the common need of almost every young artiste and it is bound to be acquired with more exposure and hard work. Besides, duet singing needs a performing technique in sharing the event holistically as well as in details. The sisters must give greater attention to this fact. They should carefully avoid a clash of ideas. Yet another underrating feature is the unwanted hurry in implementation.The concert had its upbeat and downbeat episodes, particularly in the initial stages but soon settled down to a solemn phase.Kamboji Ata Thala Varnamstarted with an unobtrusive limp and the following itemNadupaiinMadhyamayathiwas perhaps wide off the mark in terms of solidity.Madhyamavatigenerally comes up late in the concert unless deliberately intended.Poorvikalyanithereafter was good choice but they missed the trend in not preceding withalapana, which would have added glamour at the right place.Kaaranam Kettu Vaadiis a piece of good lyrics. Had it been accomplished with attractiveswarakalpana, the incident would have attained added allure. Bhairavi (a composition of Dikshithar) was rendered with ease and conveyed thebhavain full strength. Thekrithi, ninenammithinayyainSimhendramadhyamamwas well received. The sisters choseBegadaforRagam, ThanamandPallavi. ThePallaviwas set toMishra Jampe, a long extended rhythmical cycle and provided with twoaridis(stress points), an uncommon feature. The exercise was well completed withThri-kala-sancharam, but overall, it looked like a highly rehearsed exercise, providing little or no fresh creativity. While on the whole the concert had its merit, their juvenile attempts to sing thethanamdid not carry well.Ambika Prasad has a good perception of playing ragas  and he did it very well for most of the ragas, but he too did not measure up in histhanamrendering and indeed faulted in reaching the planned points in thePallavi. Young Sairam is young and enthusiastic, which led to overplaying and needlessthirmanamsat the end of eachPallavi, Anupallavior theKrithi; he was also too loud. All in all, the concert was enjoyable in parts and the large gathering enjoyed  it well.B.R.C IYENGARBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/25/stories/2006082501350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/25/images/2006082501350301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN CONCERT Bhairavi and Malavi.
p14
ss.