(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VClassy vocal recitals
p3
sVnews
p4
VKalasagaram's 42nd annual cultural festival featured some top artistes from the music world. The fourth day featured a vocal recital by Sudha Raghunathan. She performed in the company of Embar Kannan on the violin, Skanda Subramanyam on the mridangam and Raman on the morsing. She dedicated her concert to GNB and began with Abhoghi Varnam Evvari bhodana. Hamsadwani was next to come for Varavallabha ramani in adi with matching swaram. Mariyadagadayya, a rarely performed piece by Thyagaraja, was next to come. Karthikeya Gangeya of Sivan in the ragam thodi was sung next and the extensive neraval in it at Melmaru was effective. After a Tamil item Mohana Kara Sudha took Mohanam for a brief alap. Ra Ra Rajeeva Nethra of Thyagaraja was rendered with experience and the neraval and swaram was effectively rendered. The percussion duo did tani in adi with good understanding making the item memorable. After a melodious Nan oru villayattu, Sudha took Shanmukha Priya for a detailed expansion. Her ragam rendition was of high standards and tanam was sung in rhythm. The pallavi was set to Divya laghu talam ten kriyas (poorvangam six and uttarangam two druthams) was rendered neatly with contrasting laya patterns with raghabhavam shows her deep knowledge in the layam aspect. The ragamalikai swram in atana, behag, revathi in ascending and descending order was class.The violin contribution by Kannan proved effective. Finally, Sudha noted, for her lighter classic items, sang Vishemakaran Kannan in Senjhuti and followed it by a slokam in Kannada and ended with Purandar Dasa's Baro krishnayya.Neyveli Santhanagopala nNeyveli Santhanagopalan gave a performance dedicating it to the Kanchi Paramacharya. Violinist Peri Sree Ramamurty and D.S.R. Murty on the mridangam with P.V. Ramana Murty on the ghatam, K. Shyam Kumar on the kanjeera and Radha Padmaja on the morsing.Gopalan began with Bhairavi Ata tala Varnam Viribhoni, a perfect start to a concert and was followed by Hamasadwani for Vatapi with a long swarkalpana in it. Kancha dalaytakshi in Kamala Manohari was melodiously sung with elaborate neraval at Raka shashi vadane showing his class act. A brief Ananda Bhairavi was hummed for Valaji's Guru Vari Mahimalu. Saveri was taken up next for a detailed expansion by him and the ragam had all the good sangathis in it for the krithi Sri Kanchi Kamala. Sarasa Samadana in Kapi Narayani was rendered with ease. The main attraction of the day was the detailed expansion of Kapi Ragam. The ragam had all the ingredients in it reflecting the artiste's creative talent. Thygaraja's noted krithi Intha sowkyam was rendered with a lot of sowkhyam. The violin accompaniment by Peri contributed to the concert. The concluding items were Mythrim bhajathe, a thillana Niri Niri gama in Hamsanandi and nada vanddhithe in Sankarabharanam were melodiously rendered.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121850450300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/18/images/2009121850450301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCLASSY Neyvli Santanagopalan performing at the event.
p14
ss.