(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn concert, and how!
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPOne recalls listening to a violin jugalbandi by the mother and daughter duo of Minoti Khaund and Sunita nearly more than a decade ago presented by the Saraswati Samaj, Delhi, at the Patwardhan Naad Mandir of Gandharva Mahavidyala. On that occasion, the mother impressed as a well-groomed amateur artiste and the daughter as a promising debutant. Listening again to their duet recently at the India Habitat Centre, in the HCL Concert Series, one was delighted to observe the immense progress the duo has now made. While the mother impressed as a highly proficient musician, the daughter too seemed to be following the mother's footsteps closely. Minoti'stutelage under the late violin maestro Pandit V.G. Jog has added richer dimensions to her performing capabilities.The mother and daughter have carved out a niche for themselves in the field of Hindustani classical music. Minoti continues to be the foremost violin player in Assam for the past four decades. She is a gold medallist from Prayag Sangeet Samiti, Allahabad, with a Master's degree in music and has trained a good number of students in her art and is a visiting faculty of a reputed music college in Guwahati. Although her daughter Sunita is an FIR professional, yet she passionately pursues music.They commenced their recital in the colourful melody of raga Jaijaiwanti with an at length alap-jod-jhala followed by a mid-tempo composition set to the 10-beat cycle of Jhap tala. There were quite a few lively posers set forth by the mother to which the daughter gave spontaneous retorts with well-conceived melodic sequences.This was followed by the famous madhya Teen tala composition based on the famous khayal composition of the late Aaftaabe-Musiqi Ustad Fyaz Khan of Baroda.LiltingAnd what a liltingly rendered composition it was that duo rendered in raga Desh based on the famous fast tempo composition set to the 12-beat Ek tala "Beeti jaat barakha rut sajan nahin aaye ri". One enjoyed the numerous rounds of liltingly rendered variations with good awareness of the rhythm.The concluding piece composed by Minoti's late mentor Pandit V.G. Jog titled Bharat Darshan also based on raga Desh with a good dash of Eastern Uttar Pradesh folk melodies of chaiti and poorvi was rendered with much aplomb. To this Minoti added a flavour of her Assamese folk melody of Bihu. Overall an enjoyable fare to which the young percussionist added further charm with his excellent tabla accompaniment and several rounds of intricate solo variations.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041400630200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041400630201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VA FINE PERFORMANCE Violinists Minoti Khaund and Sunita at the performance.
p14
ss.