(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPure music,  sure delight
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHApart from excellent portrayal of the sahitya contents of this kriti, Manikandan also excelled in handling the manodharma aspects while delineating this ragaIt was a concert that will linger long in the memories of rasikas. The two-hour long recital of T.V. Manikandan, in the Maha Kumbhabhisheka Mahotasav (festival), at Mayur Vihar's Subha Siddhi Vinayaka Mandir this past week was well structured, appealing and impressive.Manikandan began his concert with Mayuram Vishwanatha Sastry's "Sri Maha Ganapate", in the raga Nattai, which was marked with crisp swaraprastara.This  gave him a brisk start.Tyagaraja's "Sobillu saptaswara" in the raga Jaganmohini and "Vinaraada namanavi" in Devagandhari were neatly handled, giving utmost attention to the sahitya contents. Yet another composition of Tyagaraja, "Gnanamosaka radha", in the raga Poorvi Kalyani, was marked by a fine alap, niraval of the phrase "Paramatmudu jeevatmudu padunaluku lokamulu" and subsequently an imaginative swaraprastara.Fast tempoAfter impressively presenting a fast tempo composition of Papanasam Sivan, "Saravanabhava Guhane" in the raga Kannada, Manikandan took up, as the main composition of his recital, yet another Tyagaraja kriti, "Uppacharamulannu" in the raga Bhairavi.Apart from excellent portrayal of the sahitya contents of this kriti, Manikandan also excelled in handling the manodharma aspects while delineating this raga.This was evident in his opening alap,  in the niraval that he took up in the charanam and in the later swaraprastara.Manikantan was ably assisted by VSK Annadurai on the violin and Kumbakonam N. Padmanabhan on the mridangam. While Annadurai's creative talents got displayed when he delineated the ragas Poorvi Kalyani and Bhairavi, Padmanabhan's understanding support and tani avartanam in the Adi tala were enjoyable.Thematic concertIn another thematic concert, organised by the India International Centre, I. Sweta Prasad from Hyderabad presented Annamacharya kritis. Gifted with a mellifluous voice, Sweta's recital was pure and serious music. She began impressively, with "Vandeham jagat vallabham", in the raga Hamsvadani. Her presentation of the kriti "Kunmaniyeti sudhi udakanu" in the raga Poorvi Kalyani was appealing. "Sakala santhi karamu" in Bahudari and "Mandhabhudhi Hanumanta" in Darmavati were scintillating.The kritis "Alamelu mangai" in the raga Bhairavi as well "Okapari okapari" in the raga Kharaharapriya were handled well, bringing the raga bhava of the compositions to the fore. Similarly, while presenting the kritis "Vachinnu Alamelu Manga" in the raga Hindolam, "Narayana te namo namo" in Bihag and "Jayalakshmi Varalakshmi" in the raga Lalita, Sweta was able to portray the emotive contents of these ragas."Athivo alathivo", a fast tempo piece in the raga Madhyamavati, and the popular kriti "Brahma mokate" were also appealing. Sweta could pack as many as 16 kritis during her recital of close to two hours.This was possible because her recital was bereft of raga alap, niraval and swaraprastaras. Since the focus was on the kritis of Annamacharya, Sweta seemed to have refrained from these manodharma aspects. However, on request, she delineated the raga Kharaharapriya, though briefly. Young Sneha provided the violin support and Sweta's husband I.V. Renuka Prasad provided the mridangam support.Sweta Prasad has learnt Carnatic music from Ramalaxmi Rangachari and also from renowned musicians like Neti Srirama Sarma and Shobha Raju, the founder president of Annamacharya Bhavana Vahini.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081101400200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.