(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSkilful and refreshing
p3
sVnews
p4
VRhythem digital RMCD 0004 &#151;  58-1-374 Nad Kotha Road, Visakhapatnam 27  -   Carnatic Classical Veena  -   Alaipaayude Kanna  -   S. Srivani.  Rs. 99.S. SRIVANI, a veena artiste from Andhra Pradesh, has been creating ripples in the performing sphere, having given concerts in cultural institutions in India and abroad.Her programme for Rhythem Music has Mysore Maharaja's "Sri Maha Ganapatim" heading the agenda.The kalpanaswaras in the pallavi with felicity of fingering introduce an upbeat mood. After a sprightly rendition of Muthiah Bagavatar's "Jalandhara" in Valaji, a brisk alapana of Pantuvarali with more of instrumental technique and a surfeit of activity by the sympathetic strings is more playing skill than reposeful melody.Swati Tirunal's "Sarasaksha" and the swaraprastharas have a refreshing mobility that speaks well of the artiste's constant endeavour to not allow any slips.Patnam Subramanian Iyer's "Raghuvamsa" in Kathana Kuthoohalam is a perennial favourite of an instrumentalist, and Srivani's interpretation keeps the rasika's head nodding in approval.The artiste's effort to nurture and nourish the alapana of Karaharapriya with relevant phrasings is pleasing and melodic, except that the excess use of the tala strings does cause aural discomfort.The tanam is a vibrant genre, and the laya strings play an important role. The tanam has a zestful bearing."Pakkala Nilabadi" of Tyagaraja has an authentic ring, while the neraval and swara improvisations are imaginative expressions that are above par.Melakaveri K. Balaji on the mridangam and Y. P. S. Madhubabu on the ghatam author a lucid tani avartanam for the Misra chapu tala laced with slick rhythmic phrases, culminating in a spick and span korvai.A Tiruppugazh in Hamsanandi, Oothukadu's "Alaipayudhe" in Kanada and a Meera bhajan in Sindhubhairavi are pleasant light classical songs that close the album in style. &#151;S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/18/stories/2005021802500500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.