(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEvolving his own individual style
p3
sVnews
p4
VV. JAYARAMANCarnatic music concerts become wearisome when a vocalist pays more attention to the aspect oflakshana(prescribed) than to those connected withlakshya.A fascinating aspect about Kavalam Srikumar is that he manages to sail ahead eschewing the trodden path to move daringly on his path, causing the conservativerasikasto take his version with a certain reserve.One can hardly expect popular ragas or familiar compositions during a Kavalam vocal recital. Yet, his conviction that he can hold an audience in rapt attention with his chosen path has been paying rich dividends.  His recent vocal concert under the auspices of Sree Poornathrayeesa Sangeetha Sabha at Thripunithura impressed the audience.  By constant practice he has been able to enrich his voice  and evolve a style of his own in the rendering ofswaras.Significance of the varnamSrikumar is well aware of the significance of the varnam which gives an opportunity to the vocalist to do away with any impediments in the voice, besides helping to usher in the appropriate mood. He began with a varnam (`Vande Nanda') in raga Parppathi, also known as Samudrapriya, composed by his mentor B. Sashikumar. An enticing ragamalika comprising Gurupriya, Gambhiranatta and Saraswathi through Pranathosmi by the same composer followed.Who knows the greatness of Siva and his cosmic dance, asks Gopalakrishna Bharathi in `Aarukkuthaan Theriyum,' in raga Devamanohari, popularised by the late S. Ramanthan. Kavalam  embellished with a dainty cluster ofswaras.Poorvikalyani had a sturdy framework and the concert picked up with `Aananda nata' by Neelakanta Sivan, in Roopakam, which was ornamented with jathi patterns. The mellifluence of Dvijavanthy was exploited to the hilt by the vocalist and supplemented by a high-quality lyric (`Saantham Sachinmaya'), again by Sashikumar.`Paripaahi Paahi' by Kutty Kunhu Thankachi in  Rasikapriya was warmly applauded by the audience.  Madhyamavathi played the pivotal role in the concert, with `Pannagasayana Padmanabha' by Deekshithar in Aadi.Edappally Ajith handled the violin with zest and imagination, supporting the vocalist at every point.Naanchil Arun brought forth the lustrous nature of Shucheendram `bhaani' on the mridangam, while Mangadu Pramod skilfully handled the ghatom.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/30/stories/2005093002480300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/09/30/images/2005093002480301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSTRIKING THE RIGHT NOTE: Kavalam Srikumar.
p14
ss.