(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRagas on clear-cut lines
p3
sVnews
p4
VPursuing a professional course and also be a practising musician is no mean task, that too if one is a flautist it can be even more difficult as playing a wind instrument is a strenuous job and needs a lot of energy and effort. But Dr. Vijaygopal, who is doing his masters in dentistry, seems to be a dedicated musician, as evident in his concert for the Maharajapuram Santhanam Foundation recently.It was a neat and chaste presentation of Carnatic music for two hours. He could also boast of senior vidwans as accompanists, M. A. Sundaresan on the violin, Umayalpuram Sivaraman on the mridangam and Purushothaman on the kanjira.Beginning with the Navaragamalika varnam, followed by a breezy `Girirajasuda' in Bangala, he boldly took up the alapana of Jayamanohari. It could be a tightrope walk to elaborate the raga without straying into Abhogi or Sriranjani; but Vijayagopal proved his mettle and took up the song, `Nee Bhakti Bhagya' with a fairly long segment of swarakalpana.Todi was the main item after the Lathangi raga kriti `Marivere.' Vijayagopal's delineation of the major raga was pleasing, touching on the nuances without resorting to   frills or gimmicks. There was strength and depth in his alapana and the kalpanaswara. The song chosen was Papanasam Sivan's `Karthikeya Kangeya' with neraval and swaras at `Maalmaruga Muruga.'  Sundaresan's alapanas and swarakalpanas were very good both in Jayamanohari and Todi.Accompanists dominateIn the thani avarthanam, Sivaraman produced some enchanting sounds from the left head of mridangam.  Purushothaman did not lag behind.A word about the accompanists here. When accompanying a young aspirant, it would be admirable if the senior musicians  played a supportive role and encouraged him. But in this case,  one could not help wondering who the main artiste was. It was often like a jugalbandi featuring Sivaraman and Sundaresan, the latter frequently intruding into the raga alapanas and swaras or even during the concluding items like the Magudi without allowing the flautist to showcase his imagination.Nobody questions the vidwat or the electrifying fingering of Sivaraman, but trying to dominate the show did not seem in good taste.The Magudi was obviously an inspiration from flute Mali. The concert ended with a Tulsidas bhajan in raga Desh and the Dhanasri Tillana.LAKSHMI VENKATRAMANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070702620600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070702620601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VB. Vijayagopal
p14
ss.