(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAt one's creative best
p3
sVnews
p4
VVidwan R.S. Nandakumar's vocal concert at Venne Seshanna Bhavana under the aegis of Ganabharati was an indicator to the importance of sahitya in vocal concerts.The presentation of rare tunes and compositions exposed the artiste's professional involvement and creative ability. Emotionally surcharged performance occasionally fell short of the ideal alignment of shruti.Melody and diction were the highlights of the concert. Tyagaraja's "Ramabhirama &#151;  Ramaneeya Nama" was inadequate. "Sri Ramam Pranamami" of Veena Padmanabhayya from Tyagaraja parampara in raga Kalyani, "Yavare Ramayya" in Gangeyabhushani, "Paripahimam Siddivinayaka" (vakulabharana), "Guruguha Murthe" (Udayaravichandrika), and the rare composition of Mysore Sadasivarayaru "Panchabandu" in ghana-ragamalika (Todi, Shankarabharana, Sahana and Kedaragoula) were some of remarkable selections. Neraval of "Neeraja Dala Netra" in raga Kalyani with crisp and agile sanchari and svarakalpana were conspicuous. Vidwan H.K. Narasimha Murthy on violin added cheering effects to raga-bhava with adequate support of G.S. Ramanujam on mridangamNadamandira, a newly formed institution under the guidance of Prof. Dr. C. A. Sridhar has launched a panel discussion to analyse the status of classical music in the changed circumstances. Noted musicologists, music critics and music performers will be participating in the day-long panel discussions. The senior-most artiste of the city, Prof. V. Ramaratnam will be felicitated to mark the first anniversary. The event will conclude with the vocal concert of Vidhushi T.S. Rama and valedictory keynote address by Dr. A. S. Venkatanathan, retired professor of Sanskrit.H.K. Venkataram's calm and sober violin performance reverberated the Mysore Vasudevacharya Bhavana during the Nada Suvarna of Nadabrahma Sangeetha Sabha. The noteworthy part of the concert was the information he provided about the sahitya as well as the raga, which is a rare practise. This, in fact, helps listeners enjoy the concert better. Opening with Abhogi varnam, the artiste balanced the concert with janya ragas like Saveri - Anandabhairavi ("Marivere") and Sama ( "Annapurne Vishalakshi"), besides Dhenuka ("Teliyaleru Rama"). The pinnacle of the concert was a raga-tana-pallavi in Todi. Vidwan Kumaraswamy on the mridanga was good.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/19/stories/2006051902820300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.