(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VJoining the twain...
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPThe Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) recently hosted Festival of Music and Dance  by a handful of foreign nationals who have devoted a major part of their lives studying and learning Indian performing arts. After having attained a high degree of success almost to a professional level these performers have stayed in India more or less permanently.On one of the evenings, it was indeed a privilege to attend a brilliant Kathak performance by the  petite Isabella Ann, a French national, who has been learning the dance form at the prestigious Kathak Kendra in the Capital. Endowed with a perfect figure and a charming appearance, Isabella at first regaled with her immaculate renderings comprising the usual Kathak repertoire besides a thumri.Rhythmic prowessShe, however, excelled in the display of her rhythmic prowess by the manner with which she executed scores of extremely intricate variations with commendable footwork and graceful body movements. One particularly relished the lively `parans and tukras' and the `chakkardar tihaas' that were pat on the rhythm and the scintillating sawal-jawab  with the percussionist.The next to perform was the Belgian national, Phillippe Falisse, who has been in India for more than two and a half decades. To study and understand Indian culture he first went to Kolkata and studied Bengali literature at the Rabindra Bharati University where he also learnt classical Hindustani music (Dhrupad) from Shree Satya Kinkar Bandopadhyay of the Vishnupur Gharana. Later, he learnt Dhrupad dhamar-sadra from the late Dagar brothers for more than two decades.It was a delight to listen to Phillippe after quite a long time. He certainly seems to have matured  if his calm and in-depth renderings of alap-jod and a Dhrupad in the rich and colourful melody of raga Bageshwari was any indication. The leisurely alap with rich-toned and long sweeping glides fell soothingly on the ear. The raga's folds were gradually unfolded in a highly repose ful manner. The jod sequences were redolent with bold gamakas released with much aplomb.The Dhrupad composition set to  twelve beat (chautal) time cycle "Nand ko Nandan" was developed in a highly meticulous manner with rhythmic variations handled by raising at various levels of the basic tempo maintained by the pakhwaj player Mohan Shyam Sharma who provided excellent accompaniment to the singer. The choice of fast tempo `sadra' composition in raga Shankara set to ten beat `sul-tal' (Shankar Mahadeva) was an apt and happy finale to the evening's most enjoyable fare.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/10/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/10/06/stories/2006100601580200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/10/06/images/2006100601580201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMETICULOUS Phillippe Falisse in performance.
p14
ss.