(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSombre appeal
p3
sVnews
p4
VHailing from Lakshmipura, Dharwad, Pt. Venkatesh Kumar,  gave a memorable performance in the Hindustani music festival organised by S.G.S.Sabha and Sri Guru Ganayogi Panchakshara Sangeet Yogashram Trust (Chennai). A member of the faculty of the Music\u000a College, Dharwad University, this vocalist brought into play his considerable expertise and experience in his recital.Pt. Venkatesh Kumar opted for sobriety over lilt by settling on Raag Lalit and Raag Jaunpuri. The sombre appeal of Lalit that manifested in a bade khayal exerted an undeniable pull. Unmarred by traces of sentimentality, the vocalist&#8217;s vision was distinguished by artistic integrity. The vilambit (bade khayal, jhap tal) in Jaunpuri  spread  tranquillity in the listener&#8217;s mind. The dhrut (chota khayal, teen tal) brimmed with energy without compromising on the recurrent strain of tenderness.Supple taans assumed myriad forms cresting waves, zigzagging obstacle courses, whooshing through open stretches, all with effortless ease.  A notable aspect was that the spirit of the composition governed the musician, whose melodic expression, marked by a sound sense of perception and proportion, rose ever higher in the listener&#8217;s esteem.A meditative calm pervaded the inputs of Eshwar Morgeri (harmonium) while Nishikant Barodekar (tabla) acquitted himself with verve as the two artists joined Pt. Venkatesh Kumar in his explorative journey.Widely featured in major music festivals across the country,Shraddha Jainbelongs to the Gwalior Gharana. The artist&#8217;s creativity moulded the nuances of Shudh Sarang, to come up with a sensitively crafted bade khayal (ek tal) and chota khayal (teen tal). Her clear and melodious voice was used to maximum effect to etch vignettes suffused with the glow of insight.There was economy of phrasing coupled with an aesthetic approach  evidenced by the chiaroscuro of the two madhyams, the smooth as silk ascent to the shadja, the delicacy of line, curve and gamak that linked straight notes to narratives.A lovely rendition of a composition in Desh was trimmed with attractive flounces and presented with panache. A Kabir bhajan Satguru was all-flowing melody with prayerful accents.Eshwar Morgeri (harmonium) and M.N. Munesh (tabla) provided accompaniment that combined vigour with sensitivity.Incidentally, the Yogashram Trustm, which holds an annual music fest in Chennai, is currently in the process of  setting up a premier institution of Hindustani music in Dharwad, with the help of patrons, sponsors and well-wishers.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/08/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/08/07/stories/2009080751710600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/08/07/images/2009080751710601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTrue to tradition:Pt. Venkatesh Kumar and (below) Shraddha Jain.
p14
ss.