(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMoments with legends
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHAThe Legends of India  Eighth Annual Sangeet Festival, a three-day extravaganza  at the Kamani auditorium featured an impressive vocal recital by Pandit Jasraj this past week.The selection of a raga like Bihag was just the perfect choice. He opened with the bara khayal "Kaise such sove... " set to vilambit (slow) Ek tala and elaborated it in great detail in the mandra and madhya saptak (octave), before he went on to sing the popular chhota khayal, "Lat ulajhi sulajha ja re balam" and charmed his admirers.Adana gave a good contrast as his second raga. He concluded with the Devi stuti "Niranjani... .." in raga Bhairavi.Popular ragaThe next evening started with Vishwa Mohan Bhatt playing raga Hem-Bihag on his Mohan veena. A combination of Hemant and Bihag, this raga is supposed to be created by Ustad Alauddin Khan and is a very popular raga of the Maihar gharana. He rendered a detailed alap, jod, jhala preceding the Masitkhani gat in vilambit (slow) Teen tala followed by a Razakhani and another drut (fast) gat composition in madhya and drut laya, i.e. medium and fast tempo Teen tala respectively. This culminated in a jet speed jhala.Ramkumar Mishra on the tabla was brilliant and mirrored each and every nuance of the Mohan veena. Bhatt sang and played a lori lullaby that he composed on the Mother's Day in Tilak Kamod, before concluding his recital with a melodious dhun. He also played raga Kirvani also on request.There was a huge crowd of ghazal lovers who came to listen to Ghulam Ali from Pakistan. He said that the language, music, food habits and dress, every thing is common between the two countries and it is a pleasure to perform here in India.He started with a few ghazals by Ahmad Faraaz and went on to sing the old favourites like "Chupke chupke raat din aansoo bahaanaa yaad hai". The problem with Ghulam Ali is that he never sticks to one raga and keeps on switching from Chandrakauns to Kirvani, Rageshri to Bhinna Shadja or from any raga to another at will, showing off and regaling himself with his own technical virtuosity.Riveting santoorThe festival concluded with a riveting santoor recital by Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma, who played alap, jod, jhala and three compositions in raga Jog set to Rupak tala of seven beats and Teen tala of 16 beats. Ram Kumar Mishra gave commendable tabla accompaniment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060201340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/02/images/2006060201340203.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPandit Shiv Kumar Sharma performing at Kamani.
p14
ss.