(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSufi offering
p3
sVnews
p4
VSUFI MUSIC has mesmerised listeners since ages and it has a niche appeal. The annualJahan-e-Khusraulike other Sufi festivals, aims to make the genreuniversal. In the process this time, it launched a Jahan-e-Khusrau album too. On the occasion, a programme of Sufi Music was held at New Delhi's Ashok hotel this past week. And the one to take the stage in the presence of organiser Muzaffar Ali, was the unquestionable living legend of Sufi music, Abida Parveen.There was a fervent pitch in her voice, head swaying, a level of delirium in the whirling dervish, as Abida Parveen sang in praise of the Creator to a spellbound audience. Abida also explained to the audience about the magic of Sufi music, "Sufi music is such that it is impossible to stay away from it once one listens to it. It has the power to bring people together.Woh ek tadap hain, ek soch ka naam hai. Aur usme Muzaffar Ali Sahib ne jaan dali hai."Christened Jahan-e-Khusrau 2005, the album is dedicated to the legendary sufi Maulana Jalaluddin Rumi, the founder of the 13th Century Sufi music. Talking about the literal meaning ofJahan-e-Khusrau,Muzaffar said, "Jahan means world and Khusrau means king. The music I create is a result of my total involvement in it. It hence comes from within. The poetry of the mystic is the quest of this album."In English tooAli has also translated the songs into English and Roman to reach out to the people, specially the younger generation so as to familiarise them with the verses of Khusrau and Rumi.Zila Khan, who also lent her voice to one of the songs in the album, says, "God has opened up a window for me to enter into this world of music." The other singers who have rendered their voice to this magical tribute include Shubha Mudgal and Masoud Habibi.BHAWNA SATSANGIBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/03/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/03/25/stories/2005032500800200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.