(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA celebration of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VNithyasree Mahadevan's vocal recital on the sixth day of the second decennial celebrations of Sharada Cultural Trust was filled with devotion. A noted vocalist, Nithyasree has matured to a traditional vocalist over the years. Hailing from a family of legendry musicians and the granddaughter of the great D.K. Pattammal, she presented a soothing concert in the company of violinist Krishna Swamy, Mannarkoil Balaji on the mridangam, and Shyam Kumar on the kanjeera.Nithyasree opened her recital with Charukesi varnam Innum Manam. Bilahari was the first raga essay which came out well for Dikshitar's Kamakshi. Varali was taken for Eti Jhanmamu with good raga bhava expression. The neraval at Sagarasayanuni was done with scholarliness and the kalpana swaram was good.Marivera gati naakevaaru in Malavi of GNB was a fast number before the main item of the day.Bhairavi was chosen and Nithya explored the raga with good sancharas, and the Thyagaraja's mighty krithi Koluvai yunnade was neatly presented. This krithi involves a lot of skill as it has numerous intricacies in the sangathis. The punch was missing in her rendition, particularly in this krithi.The concluding items included Srimannarayana in Bouli, Neene an atha bandho in Misra Shivaranjani and finally a ragamalika thillana composed by her mother Lalitha Sivakumar. Over all, Nithyasree's concert proved effective and was quite enjoyable to the rasikas.Hyderabad Sisters duetThe Hyderabad Sisters presented a neat concert along with Dwarm Satyanarayana on the violin, D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam, Ramana Murthy on the ghatam, and Shyam on the kanjeera. The sisters Lalitha and Haripriya gave a steady performance with a lot of sowkyam in their rendition.Opening their concert with Abhogi varnam, they tried tisram with first kala and dhuritha kalam simultaneously and managed it well. Padaravindamule, Ogirala Veeraghava Chary's rare item in Pranavapriya, was next followed by Dharini telusukonti in Sudda Saveri. Thyagaraja's Emani pogadudhune was filled with melody. Kalyani was the first ragam essayed and was sung in a laborious way with good bhavam for Mysore Vasudevachar's Bhajare Blambika.The main attraction was Bhairavi.The sisters showed great attitude in their approach and came out with a top-class ragam exploring the beauty of the ragam for a RTP in Khanda Jhathi Triputa talam. Dwaram did well on the violin and the percussion trio gave good support with well-planned tani.The melody of TVSOn the eighty day, T.V. Sankaranarayanan, rounded up the 20th annual music fest with a soothing recital along with his son Mahadevan for vocal support, Mysore Srikanth on the violin, Melakaveri Balaji on the mridangam, and Rajaganesh on the kanjeera.Sankaranarayanan has been enthralling rasikas with his masterly voice, always reflecting his uncle, the great Maduramani Iyer. He began his recital with Vinayakuni vale in Hamsadhwani with detailed swaram followed by Sogasu Chuuda tarama in Kannada Gowlam, which was presented with punching swaram.Siva siva anaradha was the krithi and the swaram was enjoyable. Hindolam was the next detailed ragam and as usual, TVS showed his class for Sharade, a rare krithi. Khambhoji was the main attraction and is also TVS' patent ragam as he sings it in most of his concerts. Majanaki chetta pattaga was a good rendition with good neraval and swaram.Kapi took the centre stage for a beautiful ragalapana and Intha sowkhyamu cheppa jala was rendered with lots of sowkhyam. Srikanth stole the show with his brilliant accompaniment on the violin. Balaji and Rajaganesh gave a subdued following and contributed to the concert. TVS concluded with Eppaoruvaru in Jhonpuri.Kudos to the Sharada Cultural Trust for giving the music rasikas a feast of classical music by the celebrities of south India.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/02/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/02/19/stories/2010021950450300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/02/19/images/2010021950450301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMagical voice Nithyasree.
p14
ss.