(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe maestro's anthem
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPThe tribe of Dagars, the dhrupad maestros, is  indeed a unique lot of old time musicians. Their repertoire is unlimited  and they are capable of rendering a particular raga without indicating any signs of repetition.They seem to be each time bringing out the hidden charms within the ragas and that also with remarkable innovations.They make the listeners forget about having listened to it umpteen times in the past since their renderings are each time spontaneous and therefore, quite refreshing.The Hindi poet of the medieval era, Raskhan's attachment to Vrindavan and the Braj region is beautifully expressed in his poem "Manus hoon to vahin Raskhan bason braj Gokul gaon ke gwaran" (as a human being I shall settle down among the cow-herds of Gokul) and "Jo pashu hoon to kahaan bas mero, charon nit Nand ki dhenu majharan" (but if I am born as an animal, I have no other choice except grazing along with the cows of Nand).Imperious compositionThis poem was set to the raga Kambhoji (derived from Carnatic music ) by the late Ustad Bairam Khan, the most illustrious among the seniors of the Dagar clan. One remembers listening to this great piece of music for the first time in Kolkata in 1954 when it was rendered by the senior duo of Dagar Brothers, the late Ustads Moinuddin and Aminuddin Dagar. Since then one has listened to it dozens of times from other members of the Dagar family.Recently,Wasifuddin Dagar rendered the same raga on the occasion of the 15th death anniversary of his father Ustad Faiyazuddin Dagar. Wasifuddin's recital commenced with an in-depth alap. He certainly seemed to be in a highly inspired form. Each of the phrases in his reposeful rendition was released with utmost melodic charm and varying permutations. Commencing with his voice sounding almost as a whisper, it gradually got developed into a full-throated singing. Each of his phrasing was highly innovative. His gradual shift into the `jod' sequences was developed in a highly artistic manner and finally culminated into bold and powerful gamakas that were reminiscent of his uncle, the late Ustad Zahiruddin Dagar.And what superb rendering it was of Raskhan's poem as a dhrupad set to twelve beat chautal. Wasif handled a good number of phrasings in an immaculate manner and with refreshingly handled variations that were with utmost spontaneity.His superb command over the rhythm was another aspect of his musical attainment that helped him to switch over from one particular pace to many other different ones. Mohan Shyam Sharma on the pakhawaj was a sheet anchor on the rhythm.The memorial concert concluded with a Hindustani classical vocal recital by Vidyadhar Vyas, the son and disciple of the late Pandit Narayanrao Vyas.His renderings in the raga Chhayanat with a brief alap followed by  three compositions pleased all for his scholarly exposition of the raga's form and mood. He had excellent support on the sarangi by Murad Ali and on the tabla by Prasun Chatterjee.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/02/stories/2007030200560200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/02/images/2007030200560201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSUPERB SINGING Wasifuddin Dagar in full flow at New Delhi's India International Centre.
p14
ss.