(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic homage to Sriman
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. SURYA RAOThe classical and light music lovers in Vijayawada were rewarded with a three-day musical feast jointly organised by Rasatarangini, Krishnamacharya Kala Peetham and N.C.V. Sangeeta Parishat in honour of Sriman N.Ch. Krishnamacharyulu, a great scholar, musician and composer.The three-day musical feast was held at Sri Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kalavedika in the premises of G.V.R.Government College of Music and Dance.The highlight of the festival was the Sahasra Chandra Darshanam felicitation to Krishnamacharyulu. A large number of his sishya prasishyas and admirers honoured the veteran vidwan.Krishnamacharyulu also authored a number of books on music. The colourful felicitation function was followed by a pleasing vocal concert by M. Jalajakshi, a senior disciple of Krishnamacharyulu.She was accompanied excellently by Pantula Rasma of Visakhapatnam on the violin and B.V.S. Prasad on the mridangam. Jalajakshi sang the compositions of her guru, starting withGowri Sukumari, one of the more popular of his compositions. Jalajakshi amply showed her merit in the main piece, aPallaviinSurati. The concert came to a close with a livelythillanainAthana.On the second day morning, there was an enlightening lecture demonstration by Komanduri Seshadri, retired principal of Government Music College, and a versatile musician. This was followed by a short vocal concert by N.C. Rangacharyulu of Kodada. He was ably followed by V.Krishnaveni on the violin and M.L.N. Raju on the mridangam.The evening featured  K.V. Reddy, a noted violinist belonging to the famous Dwaram tradition who worked for a long time in the G.V.R. Government College of Music as a violin lecturer and produced many talented disciples. The second day's evening programme was entirely devoted to light music.N.Ch. Butchiacharyulu, son of Krishnamacharyulu composed a number of light and patriotic songs well rendered by different groups of talented singers. Veteran violinist Kokkonda Subramanyam was fittingly honoured on the occasion. Winners of music  competitions held earlier by the N.C.V. Sangeetha Parishad were awarded cash prizes.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/25/stories/2005112502070200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.