(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYoung harpists show promise
p3
sVnews
p4
VA harp recital was presented by the students of A.R. Rahman's KM Music Conservatory on May 8. It featured works from Mozart and Beethoven, apart from contemporary composers. It was impressive.The harp that was played by the students at KM Music Conservatory was a massive and unwieldy instrument - no wonder that is said to be notoriously difficult to master. This Western Classical instrument stands six feet tall, has 47 different strings, and seven double-action pedals that control the sharps and flats.Furthermore, while playing, you must use both hands and feet simultaneously!The different pieces presented by the students demonstrated many of the harp's distinctive capabilities - pentatonicism (as in Thomson's &#8216;Chinese Lullaby' performed by Jerine Joseph), glissandi or running one's fingers over multiple strings (as in Mozart's &#8216;Glissando Waltz' and Watkin's &#8216;Fire Dance,' both performed by Radhika), harmonics, and a technique of plucking the strings near the soundboard (as in Watkin's &#8216;Nocturne' performed by Anushka Lewis). The pieces ranged from strictly classical styles to more modern and evocative works.Anushka Lewis, the only harp major of the students, was exceptional to watch; she performed the second movement of a Beethoven sonata with sensitivity and a difficult contemporary work by David Watkins with great dynamic and expressive range, despite multiple pedal shifts.She additionally performed a rendition of the traditional English folk song &#8216;Greensleeves' with Anand Singh on the harmonica, which proved to be one of the favourites of the night.New compositionsA notable highlight of the evening was also the premiere of two new compositions. The first, by Mugdha, was stunning. Having only been playing the harp for four months, Mugdha was able to compose a piece, which was performed by Alison Maggart, that was well-suited to the harp and which was beautiful to listen to.The piece made use of poly-rhythmic ideas, harmonics, glissandi, and a modality that was reminiscent of Indian music.She also incorporated messages into the very notation of the music!The melody followed a melancholic and meandering line that occasionally would blossom into large rolled chords or more rhythmically-driven passages.The second premiere was &#8216;Hollow Sounds for Use,' an atonal composition by the instructor, Alison Maggart, for a D-bass Hindustani flute and harp; it was performed by Anand Singh and Alison Maggart.The unusual instrumental combination brought forth new variety of sounds; the flute part carried a floating melody of trills and slides, while the harp abandoned its traditionally arpeggio-heavy accompaniment in favour of pedal slides and flat, dissonant chords.The finale was open-ended, with harmonics in the harp part, and long held notes in the flute part. It inspired meditation and reflection on music as sound, as opposed to melody.The programme concluded with a final composition by Tournier, simply entitled &#8216;Sonatine, op. 30,' performed by Alison Maggart.The piece was a tour-de-force of harp performance, the piece moves through various moods and themes towards a feverishly fast ending. Alison performed with great clarity, despite the speed at which her fingers moved.All in all, the concert was a great achievement. The diversity of the repertoire and the expressive power of the performers spoke of talent and promise. They are certainly a group to watch for, in the future.U.K. affiliationT he KM Music Conservatory, A.R. Rahman's school of Music and Technology, completes two years of its Foundation and Preparatory Programmes and next year has plans to offer a Graduate Programme for those who want a viable alternative to the traditional professional colleges.KMMC has come up with a new diploma and degree programme that offers majors in Western vocal and piano. The Foundation Program is the entry point. There will be an affiliation with Middlesex University in London for the diploma course, which is scheduled to last two years after the completion of the Foundation course; the two years spent in Chennai will then facilitate a transfer of credit in the third year, which is to be attended at Middlesex in the U.K.Instead of a mere music school, Rahman has envisaged the Conservatory as a group of performer-music directors. Specialisations are tailored to suit the individual. One can major in vocals, piano, percussion or violin, and, of course, there is always technology (logic and protools, specifically).
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/05/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/05/14/stories/2010051451630400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/05/14/images/2010051451630404.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAlison Maggart with Anand Singh (on flute).
p14
ss.