(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSprightly performance
p3
sVnews
p4
VYoung danseuse Janani Murali dazzled in her Bharatanatya recital held under the Every Friday Cultural Evening Programme series at the Yavanika.She is endowed with a dancerly body, artistic spirit and enormous energy and zeal. She is doubly blessed in having her mother, noted exponent of Bharatanatya, Guru Padma Murali for her teacher. Her performance under review undoubtedly added another feather into the fame of Guru Padma Murali.Exhibiting an admirable rhythmic tenacity, she was at home with the emotive part of the recital too. Sporting an attractive smile, she handled the aesthetic, artistic and rhythmic elements with ease and poise. Her concentration and involvement was remarkable.A rare Pancha Murthy Kauvuthuvam woven around Ganesha, Shiva, Parvathi, Krishna and Kartikeya proclaimed the opening of her recital. A varna in Valachi raga ("Annamai alagiri") addressed to the Lord Shanmugha followed immediately. She established an intimate rapport with the audience with her meticulous abhinaya. She also enthralled with graceful nritta and nrithya.In one of his padas ("Nambidavage Sri Rama, nambadavage Yama") Purandaradasa, explains that "For a believer he is Rama, for a non-believer Yama" Janani delineated this composition with the above episodes as sancharis and won the accolades of the rasikas.She followed it up with an exquisitely rendered Tamil pada in Saveri. Guru Padma Murali (nattuvanga), Ramesh Chadaga (vocal) and Jayaram (flute) imparted lively musical support. It was a delightful experience to hear to Narayanaswamy's rich and beautiful mridanga play after a long time.Unusual concertThis year's four-day music festival hosted by the Karnataka College of Percussion led by veteran mridangist TAS Mani and his renowned vocalist-wife Ramamani was held at the Ananya. There were two fantastic recitals during the festival.The first one was a thrilling Carnatic vocal recital by a young lady from Switzerland. It was astonishing to watch her adhere to the demanding principles of Carnatic music. Though her alien accent amused a serious rasika on a few occasions, she was perfect for most part of the recital. It is more interesting to note that she is trained in Carnatic music by Ramamani in the span of just four months.Complete with sari, bangles, neatly plaited hair and kumkum on the forehead, Sara Buchi demonstrated all nuances of the Carnatic music. Accompanied by Mysore Rajesh (violin), T.N. Ramesh (mridanga), S. Karthik (ghata) and Srirangarajan (morsing), Sara began with the Navaragamalika varna. The charana and ettukadais were sung in madhyamakala. The singer adorned "Gajananayutham" (Chakravaka) with a scholarly swaraprastara, which vouched for her mastery over rhythm. "Sri Saraswath" in Arabhi was sung in an enjoyable tempo.The lovers of music were further wonderstruck when she took up the first melakartha raga Kanakangi for rendition. This raga with all shuddha swaras has to be sung with great care. Sara did it in style and the krithi "Kanakangi Sri Kanakambaradhari" by Bellary Venkateshachar impressed the listeners. Purandaradasa's "Smariso sada Hariya" (Sriranjini) and GNB's Hamsanandi tillana left an indelible mark.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032402890300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.