(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDouble impact
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt rained Carnatic music in New Delhi recently. Sree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha organised its annual Tyagaraja Music Festival this past week, which was spread over five days.In all, seven concerts were organised. Notably, two pairs of vocalists, namely Ranjani-Gayathri and Malladi Sreeram Prasad and Malladi Ravikumar (popularly known as Malladi Brothers) stole the show.Structuring of their concerts, strict adherence to traditional singing, synchronised delivery of the composed portions, mastery in the improvised parts of the music, understanding support of the accompanying artistes, and above all display of team spirit by all the performers on stage transformed these concerts into delightful experiences.While the sisters Ranjani and Gayathri began their recital with an Adi tala varnam of Patnam Subramania Iyer in Thodi, the Malladi Brothers began theirs with an Ata tala varnam of Veenai Kuppaiyer in Reetigowla. Both the duos displayed considerable depth right in the opening piece. It is often said that what is begun well ends well. From then on, they presented song after song enthralling and sustaining the interests of the rasikas till the last.As for improvisatory talents, while the sisters suffixed swaraprastaras that were crisp and rich in creativity for the Swati Tirunal composition &#8216;Paramananda Natana' in Kedaram, the Malladi brothers suffixed kalpanaswaras for Tyagaraja's &#8216;Ninne Bhajana' in Nattai.While the sisters took up Tyagaraja's composition &#8216;Ninnenera Namminanura' in Pantuvarali for a detailed presentation, the brothers took up Muthuswami Dikshitar's &#8216;Ardanareeswaram Aaradhayami Sathatham' in Kumudakriya.Well delineatedWhile it was Ranjani who delineated Pantuvarali excellently and brought to the fore the complete essence of this raga, Ravikumar brought out the features of Kumadakriya in his outstanding delineation. The compositions were handled well.Both the duos took up Tyagaraja compositions for the central item of their recitals. While the sisters chose &#8216;Koluvaiyunnade' in Bhairavi, the brothers chose &#8216;Sri Raghuvara' in Khambodi.This time it was the younger sibling Gayathri who presented a fine alap of Bhairavi. Both the brothers delineated Khambodi in turns as they proceeded. These compositions as well as the detailed niraval and swaraprastaras were handled well by the artists.While the sisters included in their post-tani avartanam session emotion-laden items like Meera bhajan and abhang, the Malladi Brothers included devotional compositions of Annamacharya, Badrachala Ramadas and Purandaradasa. Short viruthams (verses sung free of the bounds of tala and not limited to one particular raga) in both the sessions added sparkle.R.K. Sreeramkumar on the violin, K.V. Prasad on the mridangam and B.S. Purushotham on the ganjira provided understanding and excellent support to Ranjani and Gayathri.For the Malladi Brothers, B. Raghavendra Rao on the violin, Patri Sathish Kumar on the mridangam and R. Raman on the morsing provided spirited support throughout. The percussionists in both the cases played riveting tani avartanams in Adi tala.These two duets will linger long in the memory.A ward ceremonies can turn out to be slow affairs, because no matter what the interest of the organisation concerned or the awardees, certain constraints of the occasion demand a formality that weighs against the entertainment quotient.When the Sree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha began its annual Tyagaraja Music Festival in the Capital by giving away awards to various luminaries in the performing arts, one could at best expect sincerity without fireworks. However, all the recipients that day as well as the chief guest, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh ESL Narasimhan, managed to belie such stereotypes.While dance gurus Shantha and V.P. Dhananjayan were honoured with the title &#8216;Natya Ratna', theatre personality Y.Gee. Mahendra was named &#8216;Nataka Ratnum'.O.S. Arun received the &#8216;Nada Bhushanum' award as did the sisters Ranjani and Gayathri. (The sisters however could not attend the ceremony and received the award later.)The chief guest began his remarks by saying he first accepted the invitation with alacrity, as an honour, but then thought what could a &#8220;mundane&#8221; person like him say amidst such great artists.However, he went on to give ample evidence of his personal experience of having heard and appreciated each of the artists on stage.Later after receiving the award, V.P. Dhananjayan mentioned what a double delight it was for him, since the Governor was his old mate from his school days in Adyar, Chennai.Touch of humourThe Chennai-based Mahendra, known for his sense of humour, jocularly hoped the Governor would soon be posted to Tamil Nadu.He had the house in stitches when he referred to Dhananjayan's remark that when he played the role of saint-composer Tyagaraja, people used to touch his feet. &#8220;I too once thought of producing a musical play on Tyagaraja,&#8221; announced Mahendra. &#8220;People fell at my feet, saying please don't commit such a folly. The action was the same, only the purpose was different.&#8221;It was hard for Arun to top such a rousing speech, but with his sincere recollections of his struggles and experiences with the Sabha, he too held audience interest.Later vocalist S. Sowmya gave a fine concert, setting off the musical part of the proceedings on a traditional note with &#8216;Sri Ganapatini' of Tyagaraja that traditionally flags off the aradhana of the bard of Thiruvaiyaru.ANJANA RAJAN
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/03/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/03/05/stories/2010030551340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/03/05/images/2010030551340203.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VHONOUR:(from left) V.P. Dhananjayan, Governor of Andhra Pradesh ESL Narasimhan, O.S. Arun, and Y.Gee Mahendra.
p14
ss.