(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA blissfulmehfil
p3
sVnews
p4
VSARASWATHY NAGARAJANthe remarkable empathy between the singers enabled them to pick up the cue when one stopped and they seamlessly blended it to create a euphonious duet.It was the bewitching hour when day merges into night.A perfect setting for a melodiousmehfilthat blended evocative lyrics and mellifluous music. Ghazal maestros Pankaj Udhas and Talat Aziz created an ethereal ambience at Nishagandi open-air auditorium.Unique eventOrganised by Green Courts, an organisation founded to encourage young tennis players in Kerala, `Trisandhya' was a unique event in the capital city as it brought the two singers together, setting the stage for a superb musical evening.The two singers, both of whom have completed 25 years as ghazal singers, began with a duet wherein each of them sang their own ghazals, but the remarkable empathy between the singers enabled them to pick up the cue when one stopped and they seamlessly blended it to create a euphonious duet.Pankaj sang `Aur aahista kijiye batein... ' while Talat sang `Kaise sukhoon pavon tujhe dekhne ke baad...'Talat Aziz told the audience that this was a technique they had perfected over the years and the duo had mesmerised listeners in New Delhi and Dubai with this vocal sorcery.After a couple of songs together, Talat Aziz left the stage to Pankaj and the seasoned singer had the spellbound audience yearning for more.He sang his popular numbers from films like `Naam' (`Chitthi aayi hai') and `Saajan' (`Jeeya jo jiye kaise bin aapke... '). Requests poured in and sure enough Pankaj sang `Chandi jaisa rang hai tera' and `Thodi thodi piya karo.'His constant banter with the listeners had them in splits as he entertained them with jokes and anecdotes.After that came Talat's turn to weave his brand of magic. Talat dedicated his song `Zindagi jab bhi teri bazm mein lauthi hai hamein' from `Umrao Jaan' to the evergreen charm of Rekha.The familiar number `Ranjishi sahi dil he dukhane ke liye..' was a hit but more requests from the audience had to be curtailed to allow Pankaj to join him to bring the concert to a close.The two concluded the concert with a soulful song composed by Talat Aziz.Plea for peaceThere was pin drop silence as the two sang `Kadam milake chala,' a kind of anthem for the troubled times we live in; a plea for communal harmony and peace. A befitting song for the day as it was Gandhi Jayanti.As the music reached a crescendo, the audience responded with thunderous applause.Then it was turn of tabla artiste Jeetu Shankar. He had a request and the singers graciously sang `Ghungroo toot gaye... 'At one point the singers invited the audience to join in and some of the wannabe singers in the crowd obliged. The auditorium resonated with the lilting lyrics of the evergreen number.Even after the singers had left the stage, the listeners lingered, unwilling to shake off the feeling of enchantment.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/07/stories/2005100700450200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/07/images/2005100700450201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMAGICAL MUSIC: Talat Aziz (left) and Pankaj Udhas(right) set the mood for the evening with their music.
p14
ss.