(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTraditional and melodic
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. VIJAYAMBIKAIt was an evening of awards at the half-yearly celebrations of Swati Sangeetha Sabha, Palakkad.  The celebrations got off to a great start with Vainika Balakrishnan Potty being awarded the title of `Nada Chandrika.' A retired teacher from Chembai Memorial Government Music College, Palakkad, he still conducts veena classes and  concerts.Prathiba, an up-and-coming singer who has made her mark as a playback singer and won the `best singer' award from Sangeeta Nataka Akademi for 2006, was also honoured.This was followed by a concert by  Satheedevi Damodaran, daughter of well-known artist A.N. Namboodiri. Her classical and mellifluous recital was a spellbinding treat for the rasikas. She captivated the audience with her rendition of popular ragas and famous compositions as well as some rare ragas and kritis. Her rendition was devoid of flashysancharasor monotonous brigas and a proof of her traditional `padanthara.'TrainingSatheedevi pursued her training under K.S. Narayanaswami after doing Ganapraveena from Chembai Memorial Government Music College, Palakkad. She has also trained under masters like Kedarnath, Meerabhai, Ramani and Rajalakshmy.Satheedevi started the concert with a rare Adi tala varnam in Shyama raga.   Another piece, the Navagraha kriti of Muthuswami Dikshithar, `Divakara Thanujam Saneeswaram,' dedicated to Lord Saneeswara in raga Yadukula Kamboji set to Adi tala, was well received as the venue was a Saneeswara Temple. Heralapanaof Varali raga was mellifluous and the Tyagaraja composition, `Etti Jeni Midhika, O Rama' set to Misrachappu tala showed the beauty and grandeur of Vilambakala and the subtleties ofbhava, raga andlaya.The raga chosen for detailed elaboration was Kamboji and the kriti was `Sreesubrahmanyaya Namasthe' by Muthuswamy Dikshithar set to Roopaka tala. Theragalapana, delectable niraval at `Vasavadi Sakla Devaya' and theswaraprastharawere a treat for music buffs.In the taniavarthanam, Hari Narayanan, an up-and-coming mridangam artiste, nephew of Satheedevi and grandson of artist A.N. Namboodiri, showcased some beautiful phrases. The kinship might have been the reason for the perfect synchronisation between the vocalist and the percussionist. Anoop Bhaskaran on the violin was  good.In the latter part of the concert, the thukkads sung were `Alai Payuthe Kanna' in raga Kannada, `Varamaruluka thaye' dedicated to Mookambika Devi in raga Ranjini.  She concluded the concert with a thillana of Swati Tirunal.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/21/stories/2006042100290300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/21/images/2006042100290301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELLIFLUOUS RECITAL: Satheedevi Damodaran.
p14
ss.