(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMix of expertise and talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Hindustani music festival organised by S.G.S. Sabha and Sri Guru Ganayogi Panchakshara Sangeet Yogashram Trust (Chennai) featured a mix of up-and-coming talent that impressed and senior artists whose expertise enthralled.Pt. Debi Prasad Ghosh (sarod), son and disciple of the renowned sarod maestro, Pt. Nandalal Ghosh, is based in Pondicherry where he teaches music at Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education.Widely travelled, he has regaled audiences worldwide with the vitality and elegance of his playing style.Plaintive, yearning and utterly atmospheric, his alaap and jod in raag Jog beckoned. The firm twang of statements amidst the delicate washes of melody remitted an irresistible appeal. As the trajectory moved towards the madhyam, the increasingly frequent visitations to the komal gandhar in descent, lent an indefinable tenderness to the dip and swell of emotive expressiveness.The chotte khayal (teen tal) spoke of yesterday&#8217;s memories and tomorrow&#8217;s dreams, dusted by brilliant sparkles and enlivened by bursts of spirited enquiry.The dhrut added rhythmic crispness, closely shadowed by the exuberant sallies of Nishikant Barodekar (tabla) who displayed excellent form as skill and instinct finessed glistening strands that culminated in a starburst. Another composition, a dadra in Desh, rippled with freshness and nostalgia.Accompanied by S. Ballesh (vocal support), Veereshwar Madri (violin), Eashwar Morgeri (harmonium) and Nishikant Barodekar (tabla), Pt. Prakashsingh Salunke presented a vocal recital.Representing the thirteenth generation of traditional gayaks whose ancestors were court musicians of the Nizam of Hyderabad, Pt. Salunke is known for his command over khayal, tumri, tappa and tarana.Elaborating raag Ragesri, in bade khayal, ( vilambit ek taal, 24 beats) and chotte khayal (teen taal 16 beats), the vocalist fashioned his piece de resistance for the evening. It was an evocative landscape &#8212; now lush, now austere, now familiar, now uncharted. A study of contrasts, a celebration of harmony. Gentle curves slid around a bend to yield a tantalizing glimpse of unexpected vistas.Steep gradients enabled impossibly rapid ascents that ended in spectacular views. And all through, the elements were bound by a thread of continuity that formed a definitive motif on a sturdy fabric. Glissades from the gandhar, madhyam and dhaivat caressed. Puissance reigned in the tara sthayi shadja suite and higher reaches, the taans resonating with the power of the artist&#8217;s ringing voice.Drawing inspiration from the vocalist, the accompanists were in their element as percussion and melody coalesced in an outpouring of creativity.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/07/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/07/31/stories/2009073151440300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/07/31/images/2009073151440302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPt. Prakashsingh Salunke.
p14
ss.