(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious jubilee
p3
sVnews
p4
VT. N. Chaturvedi, the Governor of Karnataka, inaugurated a grand auditorium at Ganapathi Sachchidananda Ashram in Girinagar. Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swamiji of Sri Avadhootha Datta Peetha, Ganapathi Sachchidananda Ashrama of Mysore and his junior Datta Vijayananda Teertha Swamiji were also presentVeteran and versatile violinist L. Subramaniam accompanied by his son (Ambi Subramaniam, second violin), A. Kumar (mridanga), K. Sekhar (tabla), Sathyasai (morsing), Giridhar Udupa (ghata) and Lata Ramachar (khanjari) exhibited his impeccable and vibrant artistry, during his performance as part of the eight-day silver jubilee celebrations. Fitted with sound amplifying gadgets he displayed superb mastery over the violin."Vatapi Ganapatim bhaje" (Hamsadhwani) with scintillatingswarassent the hall vibrating with musical sound. Keeravani and Gowrimanohari were the other ragas, which were dealt with ingenuity. The audience were enthralled with a rendition of Swamiji's composition in Gowrimanohari raga.Seasoned singer S. Shankar demonstrated the full range of his talent with his vocal recital. Beginning with the "Bhairavi atta tala varna," he impressed the rasikas with his singing of a composition by Sri Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swamiji in Hamsadhwani raga ("Jaya Jaya Ganapathi").The way he elaborated upon Simhendramadhyama for yet another beautiful krithi "Rajarajeshwari Raja kireete" by the Swamiji not only won him appreciation, but also demonstrated that Swamiji's compositions had all the essentials for adaptation to Carnatic music concerts.This was highlighted in his tasteful and leisurely phrased ragalapana, sahitya and swaravinyasa.The highlight of his recital was Thyagaraja's "O Rangashayi" in Kambhoji, which was adorned with neraval at "Bhooloka Vaikuntha" and kalpanaswaras. Mysore M. Nagaraj (violin), Kumar (mridanga) and Giridhar Udupa (ghata) were the excellent accompanists.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120802100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120802100301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVIBRANT  L. Subramaniam's recital was impeccable.
p14
ss.