(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic feast
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis year the 49th  Vinayaka Chathurthi music festival organised by the Nandrudayan Vinayakar temple music Samajam, Tiruchi, got off to a harmonious  start  with T. V. Sankaranarayanan's vocal recital.TVS started the concert with a song on Lord Ganesha in  Hamsadhwani.  After a brisk `Nadha Thanumanisam' in Chiththa Ranjani, he took up Kalyani, Hindolam and Kambodhi for elaboration and sang "Vasudhevaniya, Abayavarade Sarathe" and on Lord Muruga respectively.In his flute recital, N. Ramani   took up Sankarabharanam for  elaboration and followed it up with "Enthuku Peddala."  The thani avarthanam by Tiruvarur Bhakthavathsalam was superb.  M. Chandrasekaran (violin)  was at his best on both occasions. On the third day it was Vedha Parayanam by Brahma  Pranatharthihara Sastrigal and his disciples.Master Balamuralikrishna gave an excellent vocal recital starting with a varnam in  Surati.  His rendering of "Pankajalochana" krithi of Swati Thirunal in Kalyani and "Rama Niyada" by  Tyagaraja in Karaharapriya  were an aural treat.  Ambika Prasad on the violin, Venkat Ramana on the mridangam and Rajaganesh on the kanjira gave excellent support.Maharajapuram S. Srinivasan gave a classic vocal performance in typical Maharajapuram style.He got  vocal support from Ganesh Viswanathan, and was assisted by Nagai  Muralidharan  (violin), B.Harikumar  (mridangam) and  Mohanram  (ghatam).Neyveli Santhanagopalan gave a scintillating vocal concert. He was  accompanied by V. V. Srinivasa Rao (violin) and Umayalpuram  Mali (mridangam).  An elaborate Bhairavi  was followed by Thanam and Pallavi in praise of Sri. Nandrudayan Vinayakar.  Umayalpuram Mali was at his best in the thani avarthanam.On the concuding day, Lalgudi G. J. R.Krishnan and  J. Vijayalakshmi presented  a violin duet. They were accompanied  by Tiruvarur Vaidyanathan (mridangam) and Mohanram (ghatam).SYED MUTHAHAR SAQFBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/30/stories/2005093000540200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.