(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA melodious trio
p3
sVnews
p4
VThree generations of renowned Peri family  -   89-year-old Peri Subba Rao, his son Srirama Murthy and grandson, Thyagaraju - make a good team of violin-trio each playing his role in the overall impact the family team gave to the concert. The style they displayed, have an individual appeal, with the youngest Thyagaraju too scaling to new heights. The violin-trio these days is drawing a good attendance of music lovers.Great appealThe programme they gave at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha A.C. Hall recently  under the auspices of Ksheera Saagara Sangeeta Sabha. P. Jaya Bhasker on mridangam and K.Shyamkumar on Kanjira on Kanjeera made a matching percussion team. Together it made for a great orchestral appeal.The concert was opened by  veteran Subba Rao with a Hamsadhwani invocation `Vandeham Jagadvallabham' which was joined by  the two youngsters and turned it into an appealing opening, with perfect synchronisation of the sounds from the three violins. This very first number set high standards of violin play. Subba Rao then played a piece in Suddha Bangalam and the trio played another piece in combination `Bantureeti" in Hamsandam.Subba Rao gave an elaborate picture of the raga. The violinists shared the nereval and swaraprasthara. The main piece of the repertoire is Kharaharapriya for the popular Prakkala Nilabadi.In all, the technical contribution was shared by all  three, displaying their own individual playing skills. Ragam, Nereval and Swaram carried special appeal. It appears that the trio wanted to present Thodi as their main piece with `Kaddanu Vaariki' with nereval and swara. But they cut shot of the attempt. The Tani Avartanam was presented in this piece by Jayabhasker and and Shyamkumar. It was a good effort. The concert was rounded off with two light classical devotionals.G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/22/stories/2006122200390300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.