(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWell-balanced recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VT. K. GanapathySuguna Purushothaman.Musician and musicologist Suguna Purushothaman, with her aesthetic and technical sense supported by refined musical impulses, gave a balanced vocal recital under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts. Her scholarly and musical grist engaged the listeners throughout her special cutcheri devoted to rare kritis right from the start of the varnam to the end of the recital.Well-trained under competent gurus, her clarity of diction and choice selection of kritis sustained the tempo of the concert though she could not reach the higher octaves comfortably.The Kambodhi varnam, "Pankajakshi," as the starter was followed by "Bhajana Seyave" (Kedaram), "Samagaana" (Kokilavarali) and "Natanam Aadinaar" (Vasantha).Crisp alapanas of Sahana for Ramaswami Dikshitar's "Vashiva Vashiva" and Rishabhapriya for Tyagaraja's "Mahimadakkinju" were clearly delineated with imaginative poruthams and the lyrical beauty of the sahityam earned the audience appreciation. The raga vinyasam for Mohanam was noteworthy for rare musical phrases and idioms adhering to sampradaya style and the presentation of "Thirukkalyanam Seidukondaare" was invested with devotional fervour. The artiste's sure grip over laya was evident in the neraval at "Chitrai Ponnoosal" and kalpanaswaras for the song. The renditions of "Nee Mathi Sallaka" (Anandabhairavi) and "Muthukumarayyane" (Sankarabharanam) were full of bhava while capturing the raga rakti in both. Her wholesome package of 17  songs included a Bhairavi RTP set to Lakshmisam taal.A Thiruppugazh hymn rendered with taal in both hands drew wide acclaim. Bhaskar on the violin was very energetic and Narayanan's beats on the mridangam were quite telling.Novel ventureTapping music talent in the young Nadhopasana Carnatic music competition organised by Anns of Rotary Coimbatore central at the Indian Medical Association hall for different age groups under three categories  -   Varnam, Ashtapadi and Apoorva kritis in classical carnatic music was a novel venture to tap the skills of the young in music in the cotton city. Spread through the day, approximately 100 competitors ranging from age seven to 21 proved their mettle in rendering varnams, devarnamas of Purandaradasa, Ashtapadis and songs of the trinity. No words can adequately describe the thrill of parents and guardians when their wards rendered the numbers adhering to sruthi with swara and sahitya suddham.The following were adjudged the winners &#151;  Varnam  -   Amrita Shekar; Ashtapadi  -   Kausika (Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan) and rare kritis  -   Sharanya Ramani (PSG Tech). The competitors, by and large gave a good account of themselves in the rendition of the songs chosen by them.Prizes were distributed to the winners by vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan who gave a recital after the event. The highlight was the Karaharapriya RTP with excellent neraval and swirling swaraprastharas. His alapana of Suddhadhanyasi with appropriate phrasings for the kriti, "Narayana" with swaras was sedate. "Mahadeva Siva Shambo" (Revathi) was reflective of its philosophical contents. A high level of interpretative finesse marked the rendition of "Bagayana" (Ganamurthi) and "Chinnanchiru Kiliye." He was well accompanied by K. Balasubramanian on the violin and Prakash on the mridangam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/18/stories/2005111800370200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.