(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA gust of east wind
p3
sVnews
p4
VMore than five decades ago, a night-long scintillating session of thumris by Vidushi Girija Devi had initiated Vinod Kapur to music. Thumris along with dadra, kajri, hori, etc. are usually served as a dessert after the main course of Khayal nowadays. In an effort to give them their due respect, the famed VSK Baithak, under Kapur's stewardship, organised a novel Purab Ang Gayaki Utsav in New Delhi's India Habitat Centre. The three-day event (February 22-24), sponsored by Keggfarms Group, was the first leg of the 12 informal evening baithaks (sit-in) slated for Delhi, Kolkata and Varanasi that will feature 36 exponents belonging to three age-groups. This will culminate in the Girija Devi Puraskar function on May 7 (in Delhi) when three most gifted participants will be honoured with Ankurit (budding), Vikasit (flowered) and Sarvottam Kalakar (finest artiste) awards.The originThumri, a word coined from thumakna (dance) and rijhaana (entertain), was born in the regal courts of Lucknow and evolved into a majestic form when Dhrupad and Khayal exponents of Varanasi came under its lilting charm. It drew its sap from the traditional ethos of the Ganga-Yamuna region and became famous as Purab Ang Gayaki. Later, these idioms spread to Punjab and Rajasthan as well and blended local, intricate nuances and forms like tappa, maand, etc. The compositions relate to rituals, festivals and seasons; human relationships both within and without social sanctions and their resultant moods of pathos and ecstasy. Albeit aesthetically more demanding than pure classical idioms, emotional intensity is its lifeline. This identical spirit of the idioms prompted Kapur to bring the more ornate Punjab Ang under one blanket: Purab Ang. His sole intention is to revive interest in the spirit of this valuable genre.The UtsavEach day featured four exponents of various age-groups, who studiously avoided the guru's names to save any prejudice and allotted 30 minutes to each participant for two items. Interestingly, this clutch of 12 vocalists turned out to be an all-female and, barring two, an all-Bengal presentation led by seniors: Anjana Nath, Suranjana Bose and Manasi Majumdar. Nath gave a sterling recital in refreshingly different Kirwani thumri set to Addha. It was a beautiful blend of emotion and dexterity replete with heartrending pukars and intricate phrases. Her next was a Desh-dadra with an enchanting gait of Teen tal that was brilliantly handled by Shubhajyoti Guha's tabla.Bose, like Sraboni Chaudhuri (Mumbai), Aditi Chakraborty, Suchisree Ray and Vidisha Mukherjee, opted for Mishra Khamaj thumri, but her perceptive treatment drew deeper colours of emotion from life's experience. She concluded with an unusually emancipated dadra, &#8220;Tohe leke sawariya nikal chalbe&#8221;. Majumdar's choice of beautiful Jhinjhoti thumri and Bhairavi dadra set her apart from Pilu by Piu Mukherjee and Ragini Sarna (Varanasi) and Kafi by Paromita Bhattacharya and Sucheta Ganguli &#8212; the young vocalist who opened the festival with her impressive recital. Indrani Mukherjee emotively rendered Desh thumri and Hori-dadra. Pandit Bharat Bhushan (sarangi), Vinay Mishra (harmonium), Vinod Lele and Mithilesh Jha (tabla) provided sensitive support. At the end of every evening each participant received a medallion as a memento and a letter of appreciation autographed by none else than the iconic Girija Devi.Keeping in mind that any recital, if appreciated by erudite musicians and aficionados, becomes much more exciting and fulfilling for both the artiste and the audience, the Utsav invited a panel of experts to identify the meritorious exponents. Veteran thumri exponents Rita Ganguli, Savita Devi, Malashri Prasad and Mumbai-based Shubha Joshi took great interest and care as members of the expert-panel while the packed hallcheered the artistes.Thumri is a language of emotion, heavily rooted on lyrics in Brijbhasha and Bhojpuri dialects. Varied shades of Shringara (erotic sentiment) need to emerge from bol-banao (improvised lyrics-based melody) in an interactive mode to attract lover/deity/audience or all at once! It is not mere singing; it should become an attitude or mizaj (temperament). Though almost all participants were blessed with mellifluous voices and dazzling virtuosity, apparently most need to go deeper into the language and culture of Purab Ang Gayaki to rejuvenate its spirit sincerely.DATE WITH BAITHAKKolkata on March 6, 7 and 8Varanasi April 1, 2 and 3The awards baithaks to be held in Delhi on April 23, 24 and 25The Grand Girija Devi Puraskar ceremony will be held in Delhi on May 7For more information, mail: vskbaithak@gmail.com or contact: 91 7593783647
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/04/stories/2011030450150200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/04/images/2011030450150201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVinod Kapur, the man behind
p14
ss.