(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBrilliant flashes
p3
sVnews
p4
VSursagar featured two eminent artistes Yogesh Samsi and Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, as part of its 27th anniversary celebrations in Bangalore.Yogesh Samsi, disciple of the legendary Ustad Allah Rakha, commenced his tabla recital with teental, a rhythmic cycle of 16 beats accompanied by Ajay Joglekar on the harmonium providing the lehra in Raga Saraswati. The peshkar or the opening movement of the tabla solo played in a perceptibly slow tempo was a stylised rendition of the theka of teentaal which was elaborated through various permutations and combinations of sound syllables and beat densities within the same tempo. The richly improvisatory peshkar was followed by a more structured kayda, presented in four welldefined phases. Samsi embellished his improvisations with spectacular chakradhars and tihayis. Initiating his audience into the intricacies of laya and tala, Samsi demonstrated some scintillating parans (variations on the precomposed form ). He played some unique and complex rela compositions of his guru Ustad Alla Rakha and other composers like Zakir Hussain, Firoze Khan Saheb and Ustad Khader Baksh. Yogesh Samsi was able to weave a beautiful tapestry of rhythm with his keen sense of aesthetics, sheer musicality, flawless note production, perfect balance of tabla/dugga and adherence to tradition.The vocal recital of the maestro Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar turned out to be a veritable music feast. Pt. Kashalkar has striven towards the amalgamation of the finest aspects of three prominent gharanas - Gwalior, Agra and Jaipur in his vocalism. Pt. Kashalkar began his recital with the night melody Rag Poorya which belongs to the Marwa family of ragas. The prefatory alaap in the rag established the ambience for the sombre, melancholy, meditative appeal of this melody. The traditional khayal composition in the slow meandering vilambit tempo "Sughar Bana" was characterised by the mellifluously idiosyncratic gamaks, murkhis and other stylistic features of Pt. Kashalkar's gayaki. Pt. Vyasmurthy Katti's harmonium accompaniment had some resplendent flashes. The alluring rhythmic complexity of the tarana composition rendered by Kashalkar in the fast-paced drut teen tal acquired a magical dimension as Pt. Ravindra Yavagal's tabla reverberated to the strains of Raga Poorya. This was followed by yet another uncommon melody, Raga Shahana Kanada, distinguished by a distinctive element of contemplation and sublimity. The meticulous scholarship, depth and erudition of Pt. Kashalkar's khayal gayaki was matched by his delectably tender romantic and nuanced rendition of the thumri in Raga Des"Karan Mori Laage Kanhaiyya".Pt. Kashalkar concluded his recital with yet another "tarana" composition in raga Des.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/11/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/11/14/stories/2008111451040300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/11/14/images/2008111451040301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.