(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VColourful laya cascade
p3
sVnews
p4
VUmayalpuram K. Sivaraman, one of the most distinguished vidvans in the field of Carnatic music percussion, has enriched the art by his legendary contribution and has become a role model to many aspiring youngsters.Sivaraman's double C.D. pack "Laya Dhara" (Rs. 375) for Char Sur begins with a Tani avartanam in Chatusra Jathi Triputa Tala (Adi Tala  -   8 beats). This most popular Tala with its unlimited scope for innovation and imagination, unfolds with well-planned and well-polished rhythmic expressions that indicate a sharp, cerebral thought process. The arai chapu, Sivaraman's trump card, the meetu, and the gumukis emphatically woo the rasika to a cadence of laya expertise.The gati bedham or changing gait from chatusra to khanda, and Tisra, and back to the original chatusra gati, is a colourful kaleidoscope of laya. The gatis presented from the chatusra to the Sankeerna covering a wide gamut, the delectable, novel Korvai patterns, a refreshing technique in the opening of the tisra gati phrases, the mora and the Korvai incorporating three speeds, do make an impressive mark in one's laya consciousness. The essay in the Rupaka Chapu is shared by Sivaraman and the promising Kanjira artiste, Sundar Kumar. The exquisite patterns in tisra and khanda nadais are indeed fascinating.Sparkling rhythmThe demonstration of the Misra Chapu Tala of seven beats has the participation of the mridangam, chenda, timila, edakka and the blowing of the sangu (conch) at the end that enhances the momentum. Kerala artistes Mattanur Sankaran Kutty on the ringing Chenda, and Porur Unnikrishnan on the Timila and Sangu, play their part to perfection with sparkling rhythmic varieties. The mora and korvai are in the chatusra and tisra gati mode, with all the artistes enthusiastically guiding the exercise to a logical conclusion.Tightrope walkE.M. Subramaniam, popular ghatam vidvan, joins Sivaraman in highlighting the intricacies of the Khanda Chapu Tala (five beats). The tisra gati display in Khanda Chapu is tight rope walking, but the ease, technical dexterity and remarkable accuracy are the very definitions of excellence.The genre of the Srotovaha Yati beginning with short phrases and developing into longer ones, is skilfully employed in the Mora. This laya presentation is testament to a champion of substance, Umayalpuram Sivaraman.S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/14/stories/2005101403270500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/14/images/2005101403270502.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUmayalpuram Sivaraman.
p14
ss.