(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VCultural fiesta
p3
sVnews
p4
VPollachi Tamizhisai Sangam is one of the sabhas which provides stage to the promising young artists selected and sponsored by Tamizhnadu Iyal Isai Nadaga Mandram, every year.This year the sabha presented a variety fare comprising a nagaswaram recital, Harikatha, vocal concert and a Bharatanatyam performance.Ko. Vinodkumar gave a pleasing nagaswaram recital on the first day. A disciple of Kanchipuram Kumarakkottam M.K. Palani and Chingleput V. Muthukrishnan, he has understood the nuances of the majestic instrument and could handle it with ease. He began with the &#8216;Paaraayo' varnam in Sumanesaranjani and followed it with the compositions of great composers. He was ably accompanied on the thavil by Sivanvaayil S.M. Rajarathinam and Wallajahbad K. Sarathkumar on the thalam.Interesting harikathaG.M. Rangapriya and G.M. Krishnapriya known as &#8216;Gomatam Priya sisters' have been trained under their father and guru Gomatam Madhavachariar in harikatha.During their discourse on &#8216;Sundarakandam,' they highlighted the role of Hanuman in Ramayana. The poetic, lyrical and philosophic aspects of Sundara Kandam were brought out in an interesting manner by Rangapriya.Krishnapriya enriched her discourse with appropriate songs from Nalayira Divya Prabandam, Rama Nadaga Keerthanaigal, Kambaramayanam, and Tyagaraja kritis. They were accompanied by Akkarai Murugan on the violin and Chromepet Suresh on the mridangam.Girijashankar, erstwhile disciple of gurus Seethalakshmi and Dr. Ranganayaki, is honing his skill under the tutelage of Chitraveena Ravikiran at present. His beautiful and authentic depiction of the ragas Latangi and Thodi deserved as much appreciation as did his niravals and swarakalpanas. The unhurried swaras flowed soft and smooth proving his confidence. The viruttam, &#8216;Kondal Vannanai' and the song &#8216;Kannaa Vaa Manivannaa Vaa' were immensely sweet.His song selection consisted of popular compositions that had not yet become clich&#233;d. Girijashankar proved beyond doubt that he has immense talent. He exhibited unusual maturity and composure throughout the concert. Should he add a bit of liveliness?Challakkudy Meenakshi S. Krishnan's Bharatanatyam recital filled the spectators with joy, admiration and astonishment. Grand daughter of Vayalar Ramavarma and disciple of Sunil Nellayi, Meenakshi's live-wire performance was the outcome of dedicated team work. Nimble footwork and sensitive abhinaya were the highlights of the varnam, &#8216;Devar Munivar Thozhum' in Shanmukhapriya by Lalgudi Jayaraman. Sunil Nellayi's choreography was highly aesthetic and Meenakshi gave perfect shape to his lively imagination.Episodes from the lives of Rama, Vamana and Narasimha were minutely depicted. However, the episode of Narasimha, though beautifully done, did not seem to be appropriate for the line, &#8216;Srinivasan Perumai Sollaththarama?'&#8216;Krishna Nee Begane Baaro' brimmed with vatsalya rasa. Yasodha's enjoyment as the proud mother and her embarrassment at her son's naughtiness were brought out realistically.Resini M. Sunil's emotion-filled vocal support, Sunil Nellayi's nattuvangam, Sasikumar Tripunithura's mridangam and Biju Udayamperoor's violin blended beautifully and enhanced Meenakshi's performance.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/04/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/04/16/stories/2010041650770300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/04/16/images/2010041650770302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMeenakshi Krishnan.
p14
ss.