(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVelvet touch of a genius
p3
sVnews
p4
VViolin maestro V.V. Subramaniam's concert in Kochi was a quite simply a class act. Considering that the artiste does not perform much these days, what stood out was his uncompromising stance on perfection, tradition and discipline.VVS (as he is generally referred to) is a master violinist who has set a standard that is always reflected in every concert. This particular concert, held to a packed audience at the Kalikota Palace, Thripunithura, as always, was testimony to his genius. The maestro was accompanied by his son V.V.S. Murari and his disciple Sunitha Harishankar.With effortless easeVVS started off with a rare varnam, which he himself composed. There was an effortless ease in the way he played, in the way he set the mood and in the way he captured the attention of the audience. His gift for composing was brought to the forefront when he went on to play another of his compositions in Sreeragam. The smooth flow in the three octaves was perhaps the distinguishing feature of his style. With the very first notes in the alapana, VVS gave clues to what he was going to play. He also chose to play an alapana for each of the compositions. The often heard &#8216;Siddhivinayakam' in Shanmukhapriya acquired a different colour and a different feel when it came out of VVS's adept fingers. Murari and Sunitha gave him admirable support.Murari, a class violinist in his own right, provided dutiful accompaniment. His velvet touches and the short manodharma swaras highlighted his calibre as a violinist. After a short kirthana in Lalitha, VVS was in his element in an unforgettable exposition of the popular Swati Tirunal kriti &#8216;Smarasada maanasa' in Bilahari. His master touch and delicate fingering technique brought out the essence of the raga and kriti. What stood out was the tenderness in the way he played the phrases.The thaniavarthanam that followed was a delight. Trichur C. Narendran (mridangam) and Tripunithura N. Radhakrishnan (ghatam) wove interesting percussive patterns. It was a perfect end to a memorable Bilahari.VVS plunged the audience into a sombre mood with Purandaradasa's &#8216;Jagadoddharana' (Kapi). The soft touches, the rich tonal quality, accuracy in sruti and laya, transported the audience to a different mood. He rounded off the concert with a thillana in Hamsanandi.The concert was organised in connection with the 82nd Jayanti celebrations of the late Mavelikkara Prabhakara Varma by his disciples and by the Sree Poornathrayeesa Sangeetha Sabha.Earlier, at a special function in memory of Prabhakara Varma, musicians and his disciples such as P. R. Kumara Kerala Varma, Malini Hariharan, T. S. Radhakrishnaji, Parassala Ravi and others paid tributes to the musician and teacher.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/11/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/11/20/stories/2009112050170300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.