(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical tribute
p3
sVnews
p4
VIn connection with the &#8216;Sata Jayanthi' celebrations of the late Sivalenka Sambhu Prasad, editor of Andhra Patrika, a function was held at Ravindra Bharati under the auspices of State Culture Council. It was inaugurated by the former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah.He was all praise for Sambhu Prasad's journalistic skills. Rosaiah also released a souvenir for the occasion. He said he had the opportunity to be with Sambhu Prasad when he became the member of Legislative Council.The news he published was authentic like a Gazette publication and was fearless in publishing news, but only after verification, he said. Veteran journalist K. Ramachandramurthy spoke about yesteryear newspapers and the role played by journalists. Principal Secretary K.V. Ramana, also spoke on Sambhu Prasad's contribution to Telugu literature.The function was preceded by a flute solo by Jayaprada Ramamurthy in the company of Radhika on violin, Kalivaraprasad on mridangam, Srikanth on Kanjira and Bhargavaram on ghatam. Jayaprada opened with Bho Sambho Siva Sambho in Revati treating it more as a tribute to the late Sambhu Prasad.She then went for a kirtana of Annamacharya, Tiru Tiru Javarala in Gambhiranata.She used three flutes in presenting the raga, a difficult task to have clarity in base sound and to meet the demands of the pitch and fingering as she plays in two and a half Shruti. The kriti being popular it could easily be identified and enjoyed by the audience.Sankarabharanam was the ace melody of the concert, which she developed with clarity. Samajavaragamana in this was again an enjoyable presentation in which she used base flute for clarity of lower octave Panchama and Shadja. The swarakalpana was brief and the tani avartanam was limited to percussionists presenting a long teermanam just to complement the space.Ganapathi Satchidananda's composition Lanka Sankari in Bowli figured next, a presentation with devotional appeal. Purandaradasa's Bhagyada Lakshmi Baramma in Madhyamavati and Panthuvarali had the influence of Bhimsen Joshi's pathantaram that gave the presentation a bit of Hindusthani touch. Violin support by Radhika was uniformly good.Kalivaraprasad's mridangam tone suited the flautist well in all the numbers. Srikanth's Kanjira and Bhargavaram's support on ghatam were in tune with the pleasant mood. Sri Rosiah felicitated Jayaprada on the occasion.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/17/stories/2011061750510200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/17/images/2011061750510201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMelliflous notes Solo performance by Jayaprada.
p14
ss.