(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic is forever
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe captivating drone of the finely tuned tanpuras, in which not only the swayambhoo Gandhar but all the seven notes have their resounding melodious presence, drenches you thoroughly by the time Madhup comes on the telephone. On being asked how it feels getting the Padma Shri, he replies humbly, "Of course it feels good, but it makes no difference in your hard work, your concentrated effort for `sur lagaana' (to sustain exact pitch, with appropriate weight) with the tanpura. A reward is rather more demanding in a way, because it brings greater responsibility on your shoulders to give your best. You have to strive harder to prove worthy of it."Son of the late Pandit Vinay Chandra Maudgalya, Madhup had his initial training under his father and thereafter learnt from Pandit Vasanta Thakaar and Pandit Jasraj. The conducive atmosphere at home with lots of inputs and exposure from musicians visiting the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya also enriched him, but it was Pandit Kumar Gandharva's influence that shaped his distinct style and gave him an awareness and sensitivity to the fine balance between tradition and innovation. His art has matured in such a way that from the very first note he utters you know you are listening to someone who has meditated upon his music.His classicism has not prevented him from innovation and experimentation. His latest album Samwaad is a unique album, in collaboration with a Brazilian instrumental ensemble. Madhup says the idea to do a production with Carnival players Escola-de-Samba was conceived by his Brazilian pianist friend Ivaldo Bertazzo. "But while composing Samwaad I have taken care not to use any electronic instruments except the bass guitar. The constant drone of the tanpura gives it a meditative quality and the scale remains the same all through."Choral musicAs a conductor of the acclaimed Gandharva choir Madhup has proved himself to be a brilliant composer of choral music. The wide ranging repertoire ranges from Vedic mantras to compositions based on Dhrupad, tarana, varnam and songs in different languages. He has composed music for Odissi and Bharatanatyam choreography of Madhavi Mudgal and Leela Samson. Two volumes of Kabir bhajans released by Music Today are totally "akele-dum," his own compositions, says Madhup.He has also composed for Kalidas's Kumarsambhava choreographed by Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra. Some of his khayal and tarana bandishes are at times mistaken to be compositions of the late Kumar Gandharva, and Madhup takes it to be a compliment.As the principal of Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, Madhup finds the popularity of music remains high. However he feels the standard has come down over the last 40-50 years. "They are all in a hurry to perform on stage, forgetting that there are no shortcuts in this vidya." Asked whether he has invented any new raga, he says, "Forget about that, I don't even perform an old raga until it starts running in my blood. It takes at least two-three years to domanan -chintan(meditation) upon a raga before I perform it.MANJARI SINHABottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/17
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/17/stories/2006021701250200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/17/images/2006021701250201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VECLECTIC TASTES Madhup Mudgal in New Delhi.   Photo: R.V. Moorthy
p14
ss.