(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAdmirable and authentic
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe young and seasoned singer Kalavathi Avadhooth's vocal recital for Sri Seshadripuram Rama Seva Samithi during its 58th Sri Ramanavami Music festival had an admirable Carnatic authenticity. Although her presentation on the whole was rather simplistic, there were some moving moments which will remain in one's memory for a long time. There was an enjoyable profusion of well-rendered musical phrases in the confluence of bhava, raga and tala. She performed most of the time in a leisurely style with no attempt to over-reach herself. Consequently, the concert was extremely reposeful and satisfying.Rewardingly accompanied by Nalina Mohan (violin), H.S. Sudheendra (mridanga), Dayananda Mohite (ghata) and Satwalli Bharadwaj (morsing), Kalavathi began her recital with the Sri raga varna. "Swaminatha paripalaya" (Nata), "Rama nannu brovara" (Harikambhoji) and "Sukhi evvaro" (Kaanada) in the early part of the recital not only brought out the latent talent of the vocalist but also created an inspiring ambience. Poorvi Kalyani (for "Kelano Hari") and Madhyamavathi ("Rama katha sudharasa") were profound. Vachaspathi got a detailed exposition of the raga, tana and pallavi ("Chetha Sri paalam jeemootha Shyamam") in it set to khanda triputa tala, the singer surfaced with a rich haul of gleaming pearls. The ragamalika swaras in Mohana, Shahana, Revathi and Varamu ragas saw glimpses of her abundant creativity.Veteran flautist B. Shankara Rao provided the rasikas an opportunity to savour the glory of the traditional Carnatic music in his flute recital for Sangeetha Kripa Kuteera at Sri Dattatreya Temple, Tyagarajanagar. Accompanied by his prized-disciple Madhura on the second flute, Shankara Rao exquisitely tackled ragas like Chakravaka ("Gajananayutam") and Sri ("Endaro Mahanubhavulu").He excelled in the delineation of Anandabhairavi ("Kanikaramuleka") and Kharaharapriya ("Chackani Rajamargamu").In her Bharatanatya recital held at the Khimcha auditorium of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Dr. Malini Ravishankar demonstrated her mimetic and technical ability in ample measure. With a fine grasp over laya, her nritta part of the dance was executed with accuracy and confidence. As far as the dance line and the profile went, Malini was generally correct, though one would have liked more immaculate leg stretches. The Ganesha namana was followed by a composition in praise of Lord Shiva ("Natyapriya namma Shankara", Abhogi). The manner in which she underlined the traits of Lord Shiva established an intimate rapport.The pining nayika as described in a Tamil Varna "Nathanai azhaituva" set to Kambhoji came before the rasikas in her neat abhinaya. The nritta could have been crisper. "Bhaamaro naa pai" (Saveri), Kshetragna pada was in handy for the mood she was projecting. Krishna's childhood pranks came to the fore on the basis of a composition (raga and talamalika) by the dancer herself.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/19/stories/2006051902810300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/19/images/2006051902810302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMalini Ravishankar.
p14
ss.