(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTruly gifted
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARRamanujacharyulu, who hails from a family of violinists, is a gifted artiste. With his rich experience and richer repertoire,  fearless outlook and intelligence, he can meet the wishes of the laymen as well as the learned listener.He may not have the extraordinary gift of improvisation, but whatever he plays is well within the norms of enjoyable music. In his solo violin concert arranged by Kalasagaram last week, he gave a glittering performance for nearly three hours that was spiced with traditional items and based on conventional format. Arvind accompanied him on the mridangam.The fact however remains that lyric (sahithya) takes a beating in instrumental music, unless thegayakastyle is adopted.  Acharyulu was indeed aware of this and he did use the said style to a great extent. In terms of hisalapana, andswarakalpanait was just the routine way.Starting with thevarnamindarbar, the concert led to theragabahudari(brovabharama); the change had a lightning impact. Theraga varaliwas well brought out. Theragahas a conventional approach; it is impressive only when it has a built-in breezy phrases. Acharyulu did not miss this fact.Thekrithi,mamava meenaklshiset tomishra chaapuhad all the grandeur, dignity and stature. Thetala,in particular, conveyed thebhavain full strength.Kharaharapriyacovered a good part of the time with attractivesangathisin thealapanaas well as thekrithiandchakkani rajamaargamu. Theswarakalpanahad the usual slant with mathematical calculations (kanakku) and kept in equation with the aspiration of the common listener. The concert ended up with somerakthi ragaslikebehag andsindhu bhairavi.Arvind added some thrilling moments in his playing and histhaniwas impressive.The concert was a routine affair, pleasing both the connoisseur as well as the common listener, although it was nothing eventful. The concert was well attended and applauded.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081101750300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.