(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSeason's best
p3
sVnews
p4
VNational award-winning puppeteer Dattatreya Aralikatti of Putthali Kala Ranga and his team comprising Ramamani Aralikatti, Manohara Datta, Anand Murthy, Vishwanath, Ramakrishna, Ranganatha, Vidya Bhaskara, and others enlivened the artistry of puppetry when they performed for Khadi Gramodyog at their exhibition, held in the premises of the Government Fort High School. Dattatreya, though a teacher by profession, has still been doing great service to this ancient art form. He has been successful in juxtaposing the present day advanced science and technology with his artistry.The puppeteers dexterously manipulated the chinmudrika hastha wooden puppets with iron rods. Modern technology was used in the depiction of Homagni, flying birds, rain, lightning etc. The Carnatic ragas that were adapted had an emotional intensity. The music and lyrics by Dattatreya Aralikatti was enriching.RamanavamiThe 67th Sri Ramanavami celebrations of Sri Ramaseva Mandali, Chamarajpet began on the Ugadi day at the Government Fort High School with a resonant mandolin duet by U. Shrinivas and his brother U. Rajesh. Instrumental virtuosity reigned supreme in their recital.Dr.R.N.Srilatha from Mysore, leading female vocalists of todayhas carved a special place for herself in the world of Carnatic music. She is endowed with a rich and soft voice. She hails from a family of musicians. At her concert supported by Nalina Mohan (violin), H.S. Sudheendra (mridanga) and Srishaila (ghata), she impressed the rasikas at the with her undiluted scholarship and brilliance. Opening with a Mayamalavagowla varna she surprised the lovers of music with a rare and fine Ambi Dikshitar krithi on Lord Ganesha in Nata raga ("Varasiddhi Vinayaka"), Poornashadja ("Lavanya Rama"), Varali ("Eti Janma"), Abheri (a beautiful Uttakkadu Venkatasubba Iyer krithi "Nandagopala"), Yadukula Kambhoji (for yet another rare composition "Nee Dayarada") and Kharaharapriya ("Nadachi") were some of the other items sung by her.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/04/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/04/22/stories/2005042203020300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.