(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMan over material
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHSanjay Subramaniam, who was featured on the first day of the four-day Music and Harikatha Festival organised by Sree Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha and the Delhi Tamil Sangam this past week, enthralled the rasikas by steering every phase of his concert to a delightful culmination. Despite the poor microphone system in the auditorium of Delhi Tamil Sangam, which was constantly irritating, to both the performing artistes and the rasikas, Sanjay won the hearts of the listeners with his brilliant performance.Sanjay made an impressive presentation of Tyagaraja's "Raghu Nayaka", in the raga Hamsadhwani. This was followed by yet another Tyagaraja composition, "Rama ninu vina" in the raga Shankarabharanam, in which Sanjay brought the raga as well as the sahitya bhava to the fore. This was also marked with niraval and swaraprastara rich in creativity.Performing on the Kandha Shasti day, it was thoughtful of Sanjay to present Papanasam Sivan's "Muruga muzhu mathi pazhikum" in the raga Saveri. Earlier, he presented an outstanding alap of this raga. His next presentation, Kotteswara Iyer's, "Yedhiyya kathi" in the raga Chalanattai was scintillating, particularly the sangatis where bhrigas were used. By this stage, he also seemed to have reconciled himself to the fact that the microphone system was not going to improve any further.Tyagaraja's "Jesinathella" in the raga Todi, which was marked by a fine alap and swaraprastaras, was given fine treatment. Similarly, Vedhanayakam Pillai's "Oho kalame" in Sahana and Muttuswami Dikshitar's "Tyagaraja yoga vaibhavam' in the raga Ananda Bhairavi, also underwent fine treatment, with flowing of the raga bhavas in abundance.Ragam-taanam-pallaviSanjay then presented a ragam-taanam-pallavi in the raga Nattakuranji, set to Adi tala. The pallavi, "Nattai kuranji yenbar sirandha yengaladu", was preceded by a fine alap and mellifluous taanam. The subsequent swaraprastaras, full of imagination, were at the ateetam (at the lastaksharaor count of the tala cycle), at the phrase "Yengaladu" of the pallavi. He also followed it with ragamalika swaraprastaras in the ragas Subhapantuvarali and Abheri, though for these, he chose not the phrase "Yengaladu", but at the phrase "Nattaikuranji".Fine accompanimentPakkala Ramdas, though the most affected because of the poor microphone system, provided excellent support on the violin. In particular, his delineation of the ragas Saveri, Todi and Nattakuranji and handling of swaraprastaras in various ragas bore testimony to his manodharma talents. P. Satish Kumar provided good and understanding support on the mridangam throughout, and his tani avartanam in Adi tala was lively. On the whole, it was a concert driven by team spirit, a treat for Carnatic music fans.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/10/stories/2006111001240300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/10/images/2006111001240301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN FLIGHT Sanjay Subramaniam at the Delhi Tamil Sangam
p14
ss.