(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThrilling vocal recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis month, the South Indian Cultural Association featured artiste D. Vardhani, a product of Maharaja College of Music and Dance, Vizianagaram, where she obtained a diploma in music with top rank. Her vocal culture and performing ability were put on display at the SICA programme held last week at Ravindra Bharathi. She was also in the vocal company of her disciples, twins Madhumita and Sushmita.She opened her concert with Kanada Raga Ata tala varnam which she rendered in two speeds. In doing so she set a positive mood to the concert besides exercising herself to give a promising concert that she finally delivered. She then rendered Mariyada Gaadayya in Bhairavi of Thyagaraja and went for Bhajare Bhaja Manasa in Kannada of Thyagaraja again. The swara setting was imaginative. A Tamil composition Nambikettavar of Papanasam Sivan in Hindolam was the next piece with perfect sahitya bhava projecting the devotional content of the composition. She also rendered another one of Sivan's composition Velan Varuvadi in ragamalika and also another Tamil piece of Uthukadu Venkatasubba Iyer &#8211; Ayiram Ayiramcharu in Charukesi.The major melody of the concert was Poorvikalyani. Vardhani built it with a methodical approach reaching out to the middle and upper octaves, presenting them with subtle nuances. Deekshitar's Meenakshime Mudam Dehi in this raga with devotional appeal was presented with a nereval as part of it and then shifted to a fine swarakalpana. Annamayya kirtana, Evvadogani Erugadu in Karnaranjani also figured.She concluded with Dhanasri tillana. She was accompanied by R. Dinkar on violin, S. Aravind on mridangam and P. Srinivasa Gopalan on morsing. The role played by violinist in presenting the raga essays in the main number and the other numbers in brevity, adding his own imagination in his support throughout the concert was impressive. The tani avartanam by the percussionists was interesting. This concert was held in memory of a vocalist Kalyani Balakrishna Iyer. Tributes were also paid to Puranam Purushothama Sastry who passed away recently and P.R.S. Mani the treasurer of the Sabha, who served SICA for 25 years. G.S.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/03/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/03/05/stories/2010030550120300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/03/05/images/2010030550120301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVardhini's performance.
p14
ss.