(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA musical tribute
p3
sVnews
p4
VThanks to the support extended by the body of Soham Consultants instituted by Susarla International Trust besides D.S.N. Raju and his wife Lakshmikantham, Thyagaraja Aradhana Trust organised a four-day musical tribute by way of rendering the compositions of the vaggeyakara nonpareil non-stop from 8 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. every day.The programme that started on Pushya Bahula Panchami, the day on which Thyagaraja attained liberation in 1847 at the age of 80, was inaugurated last Thursday evening by renowned exponents of carnatic music Prof. S.R. Janakiraman and Nedunuri Krishnamurty. Thought provoking presentation of a ballad like featureNavarasamalikainter-oven with talk elucidating the way the Navarasas get manifest in Thyagaraja&#8217;s compositions marked the evening.It was presented by doctoral degree holder in music and noted exponent of carnatic music Pantula Rama. She explicated taking sets of lyrical and musical phraseology from select groups of compositions. Then with her mother-in-law M. Jalajakshi in the lead, herself along with D. Aruna, I. Jagadamba and B. Lakshmi Surya Teja on one side and led by her husband, noted violinist and vocalist M.S.N. Murty, Y. Ramanababu and G.V.S. Raghuram on the other side rendered one or two out of them harmoniously and evocatively. S. Pardhiva and P. Gnanadev on violin, VV Ramanamurty in particular on mridangam and G. Venkatesh with morsing lending excellent support contributed grandeur.The compositions rendered wereDayaseyavayya(Edukulakambhoji) andEndukougilintura(Varali) supposedly symbolising Srungara,Kalinarulaku(Kuntalavarali), the Hasya,Karunayelagante(Varali), the Karuna,Sattalenidinamu(Naganandini) the Beebhatsa,Chedebuddhi Maanara(Athana), the Roudra,Entani Ne Varnintu(Mukhari), the Adbhutha,Emi Trova(Saranga) andEvarichirira Rama(Madhyamavathi), the Veera,Yunnatavuna(Ghanta), the Bhayanaka andSantamuleka(Sama), the Santa rasas. The exercise sustained audience interest but not without the very basis of adaptability of the conception behind it becoming a moot point among many a noted connoisseurs of drama, classical dance and music.The main programme on the next morning (Pushya Bahula Panchami) started with puja followed by Tiruveedhi at 8 a.m. and Pancharatna kriti seva rendered by more than 100 artistes in unblemished unison. Then, about 40 recitals of 10 mminutes duration each, 5 of 15 minutes duration and 5 of 30 minutes duration went on till 9.30 p.m. The next three days also featured recitals on similar lines. By and large most of the youngsters who rendered recitals of 10 and 15 minutes, (in vocal, veena, violin, flute and keyboard) proved to be artistes in the making.The 30 minutes recital rendered on veena by veteran artistes like Pappu Padmavathi Paramahamsa on veena, vocals by Vasundharadevi and M. Jalajakshi and violin by M.S.N. Murty surfacing the manifest acme of seraphic devotion for Srirama embedded by the vaggeyakara in his compositions stood out attracting special mention.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/23/stories/2009012350530200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/01/23/images/2009012350530201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn unisonNavaragamalika turned out to be a memorable event.
p14
ss.