(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConfluence of creativity
p3
sVnews
p4
VJugalbandis are tricky propositions. They either turn out to be a perfect confluence of Hindustani and Carnatic music because of the many common factors or stand apart as two islands of independent talent. Luckily, in this conversation between flautist Shashank and sitar player Purbayan Chatterjee, the harmony between them was so good that the bamboo and the strings blended interestingly and yes, melodiously at many junctures. Titled &#8216;Musical Conversation, Kolkata to Chennai' it was part of the week long the silver jubilee anniversary celebrations of YACM at The Music Academy. The artists were accompanied by Patri Satish Kumar on the mridangam and Yogesh Shamsi on the tabla.The format was based more on the Hindustani style, and so Madhuvanti (Dharmavati in Carnatic) was the raga of the evening. Undoubtedly a fine choice, as the raga is imbued with a tinge of melancholic melody. Purbayan started the raga with soul-stirring touches that had ample gamakas to entice the Chennai audience. Shashank followed suit with many velvety touches to the Dharmavati phrases. The conversation that built the raga image started slowly and softly and soon progressed into a steady shower.After the raga exposition, a pallavi-like refrain was taken up set in tisra triputa taal. As the swara sallies advanced, the steady showers became a thundershower and finally, a hailstorm.Enticing phrasesBut amazingly, despite the rapid swara exchanges, melody was intact through the sonorous notes from the sitar and the flute. Madhuvanti won over even the forceful postures of Shashank and Purbayan with its powerful melodic core. This conversion exhibited the commendable competence of the artists and was a meeting of two creative minds.The next two ragas were Khamas and Sindubhairavi. The interpretation of Khamas put forth its romantic charm and in this segment, Purbayan's nimble fingers brought forth many enticing phrases.Part of the javali, &#8216;Apaduruku' was chosen by Shashank for extrapolation. Here too, the dialogue started with mild touches and soon moved to the faster segment, sharing the sojourn alternately.With two energetic performers as the main players, the percussionist acted as catalysts.The dynamic duel between Purbayan and Satish Kumar (mridangam) was special. Yogesh Shamsi was conspicuous with his subtle to sharp strokes on the tabla.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/03/stories/2010090351200200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/09/03/images/2010090351200201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSWEET NOTES: Shashank and Purbayan Chatterjee.
p14
ss.