(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEngaging recitals
p3
sVnews
p4
VTill the advent of the 20th Century, wind instruments did not enjoy concert status in the Hindustani classical music. It was because of the sheer genius of great maestros like Bismillah Khan and Pannalal Ghosh that shehnai and flute forced their way into the crowded concert platform and found a permanent niche for themselves. Of the two, flute was the less fortunate one as it had virtually no musical history to claim a place on the high table of classical music. Shehnai, like its southern counterpart nadaswaram, was regularly played at the temples as well as on auspicious social occasions. But flute was deprived of even this minor privilege. It had a hoary association with Krishna and was considered to be a pastoral folk instrument. But Pannalal Ghosh changed all this once and for all. And now we have several top notch flautists like Hari Prasad Chaurasia and Nityanand Haldipur.Rajendra Prasanna also happens to be a notable exponent of the wood-wind instrument. He belongs to a Banaras family of musicians and was trained by his father Raghunath Prasanna and uncle Vishnu Prasanna. He was also influenced by Hafeez Ahmad Khan and Sarfaraz Khan of Rampur-Sahaswan gharana and Mahadev Mishra, the legendary master of the Banaras style of thumri, dadra and other lighter forms of music.At a concert organised at the India Habitat Centre in New Delhi by Pravah Music Society recently, Rajendra Prasanna presented a flute recital and played a rarely heard raga Chandraprabha. This raga is supposed to be the creation of Faiyaz Ahmad Khan of the Kirana gharana who displayed musical ingenuity by replacing the gandhar in raga Chandrakauns by rishabh, retaining the pentatonic character of the raga. While the raga has not really caught on as famously as some other creations of the 20th Century like Jogkauns (composed by Jagannath Bua Purohit &#8216;Gunidas'), it goes to the credit of Faiyaz Ahmad Khan that his innovation has been acknowledged by a genius like Bismillah Khan who recorded this raga and also by a seasoned singer like Prabhudev Sardar who sang it with great relish.Rajendra played a short alap followed by two gats in slow and fast tempo. He displayed repose and seemed interested in establishing the mood of the raga. While the slow gat moved placidly, the fast one had some vigorous taans and intricate patterns culminating in a crescendo. On the whole, it was a satisfying performance. He concluded his recital with a typical Banarasi chaiti and played it with lilt and lyrical grace. He was accompanied by his son on the flute and by young Shubh Maharaj on the tabla. A grandson of the legendary Kishan Maharaj, Shubh acquitted himself very well.Well-trained voiceThe evening opened with a vocal recital by Uma Garg who made a very apt choice in raga Shyam Kalyan. She received initial training from her mother Asha Lata Das and later learnt from Sadashiv Apte, Mani Prasad and Bhimsen Joshi. She began with a vilambit composition &#8220;Jhoolat Radha Pyaari&#8221; and went on to sing a drut one &#8220;Bawari Bhai Piya Bina&#8221;. She has a pleasant, tuneful and well-trained voice but perhaps in her eagerness to not eat into the next artiste's time, she wrapped up her concert without exploring the depths of the raga and sketched only its contours. She was ably supported by young Vinay Mishra and Mihilesh Kumar Jha on harmonium and tabla respectively. The veteran Bharat Bhushan Goswami provided good sarangi accompaniment.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/06/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/06/10/stories/2011061050300200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/06/10/images/2011061050300201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUma Garg at a performance.
p14
ss.