(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VReplete with thrills and frills
p3
sVnews
p4
VNatural talent can take a musician to the top, but to keep it requires gaining maturity on proper lines. Hearing his HCL concert at The Music Academy, one was tempted to conclude that T.M.Krishna&#8217;s style and musical content these days are  moti\u000avated by a new pantha of swaying between slovenliness and spirit.The values and creativity had these definite overtones. While the almost whispering lethargic sancharas in the early development of a raga was aimed at imparting a sense of tranquillity, the sudden flood of speedy open-throated passages in the follow-up meant recognition of the need for tempo. The former was to dramatise music&#8217;s emotion and the latter to uphold the virtues of vitality of velocity.His first love prompted him to choose the two rakti ragas, Devagandhari and Khamas. The progress was around segments which, in his view, constituted the quintessential quality of serenity. It was really paying, though this aspect was stretched too much. He successfully connected his subjective vision of the two ragas with the objective reality of exposition. It was a testament to his pursuit of sensitivity. But the same sensitivity disappeared when he took to the strident sancharas to wind up the ragas.Fine vocal balance in handling gana naya inputs spoke of the good aspects of his music, suggesting sound basics. At the same time, music is more than skilled voice manipulation. The performance was replete with thrills and frills by way of bullets-from-rifle swaras in the second kalam.The kalapramana of the kirtana, &#8216;Sarade Veena Vadana Visarade&#8217; (Devagandhari) was soaked in depth and sahitya grace. The oscillation of the sangatis breathed melodic charm into the song. By his soft articulation of the words, Krishna lingered tenderly over the kirtana&#8217;s structure and revealed an astonishing ability to visualise its richness. The other was &#8216;Upendram Aasrayami&#8217; (Khamas). The urge to be demonstrative was strongly manifest.The main item was Kedaragowla (&#8216;Saraguna Palimpa&#8217;). The way he rendered the alapana, kirtana, niraval and swaras underlined his stirring talent. There was passion in the interpretation, meticulously accurate. The sancharas soared in the tara sthayi and his robust style was very much visible in every twist and turn of the sancharas. The kirtana was presented with the weight it deserved.The violinist was Embar Kannan. His solo version of the three ragas exposed the endearing features with great intensity. He revealed that he was quite conversant with the characteristic nuances of the ragas.The laya accompaniment by K.V. Prasad was arresting in form and fashion, gentle but firm, with strikingly stunning patterns to suit the ebb and flow of Krishna&#8217;s expository method. A tempered approach and relevant technique towards it defined his art. His thani emphasised that sensitivity was not the exclusive domain of a vocalist. There was in his play a luxuriance of sweetness and softness which conveyed his role through loveable gentle sound images. Guru Prasad was the ghatam artist.HCL Concert Series is an initiative to  showcase excellence in Indian arts and culture to discerning audiences and the series has presented hundreds of concerts featuring a variety of artists over nine years.In September 2006 HCL took the HCL Concert series to Chennai in association with The Music Academy, Madras.The &#8216;Expressions of Mind&#8217; concert on Friday last commenced with the lighting of the traditional lamp by the guest of honour Prof. S. Ramachandran, Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras, Dr. Baldev Raj, Director, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Guest of Honour  V.P. Dhananajayan, N. Murali, president, The Music Academy,  Dr. Malathy Rangaswamy, secretary,  J.V. Ramamurthy, Chief Operating Officer, HCL, and T.R. Vasudevan, HCL.Mr. Ramamurthy welcomed the guests. Prof. S. Ramachandran inaugurated the Concert Series function.Dr. Baldev Raj, in his key note address compared the spiritual side of mind and music with science. Mr. Vasudevan proposed a vote of thanks.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/26/stories/2008092650950200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/26/images/2008092650950201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSENSITIVE:T.M. Krishna.
p14
ss.