(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VViolin vistas and vision
p3
sVnews
p4
VM.V.RAMAKRISHNANIf a quizmaster asks ``What does the number 72 indicate in Carnatic music?" any intelligent person is likely to shoot back: ``The 72 Melakartas!" and win full marks. A more obscure fact (which is valid only this year) is that it also indicates the number of years spent as a performing artist by the eminent violinist T.N. Krishnan, who recently gave solo recitals at the Anantha Padmanabha Swami Temple in Adyar and at Hamsadhwani in Indira Nagar, accompanied by his talented violinist-daughter Viji on the latter occasion.Krishnan hails from Kerala, but his roots in Madras can be traced back to the early 1940s, when the city was a fearful place to live in, with ominous air-raid precautions like concrete shelters, total black-outs in the night, and mock raids with wailing sirens and whistling wardens (although luckily there were no actual air strikes). Through all that commotion and tension the great vocalists of Carnatic music would go on performing in the week-ends in the few pioneer Sabhas existing then, and T.N.Krishnan would be there playing the violin and absorbing the devotional spirit of them all.Krishnan, who has turned 79, has led a fulfilling life as a Carnatic musician, and is still vigorously active. But his focus is now on further exploring (and hopefully explaining to future generations) the infinite nuances of the Carnatic ragas and the intricacies of interpreting them on the violin. His public performances are limited to occasional solo recitals.Spiritual reverenceT.N.Krishnan has always been able to achieve a perfect blend of sound and spirit with his violin, whether accompanying a vocalist or performing as a soloist. This writer had described this phenomenon in the following remarks in reviews published long ago: ``Krishnan's claim for distinction lies in the unique tone of spiritual reverence which he somehow produces in his violin... The highlights of the concert were the Karaharapriya and the Thodi, in both of which his neat and colourful phrasings were like brush-strokes of lovely oils on a clean canvas." (Free Press Bulletin, Bombay, 1969).Another review (1971) ran thus: ``Although tradition forbids the solo Carnatic instrumentalist to deviate from the normal concert scheme prescribed for vocal music (which makes it compulsory for him to render the kritis as composed), the alapanas and swaraprastharas do open up vast vistas of adventure for him. It is only natural therefore that the occasional soloist should be tempted to accord more importance to sound than to significance.``It is a mark of Krishnan's maturity that even in the exploration of pure sound he can produce that subtle tone of spiritual reverence which is the chief merit of his virtuosity. This truth was evident most strikingly in his exposition of Kiravani... the emotional content made you wish for the soothing strains of some familiar composition."Krishnan's interpretation of Thodi, Bhairavi and Khambodi in his recent recitals at the Adyar temple and Hamsadhwani showed that his vision as a soloist continues to be as meditative as it used to be midway through his remarkably long career, and that his technique has become even more subtle and sophisticated.And Viji seems to have absorbed her father's style and outlook sufficiently well to be able to echo his music faithfully and sensitively.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/16/stories/2007031602080600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/16/images/2007031602080601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT.N.Krishnan.
p14
ss.