(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VUnder the soothing rain
p3
sVnews
p4
VAs the denizens heaved a sigh of relief to see the clouds converge above the Capital, the mood was set for santoor maestro Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma's performance welcoming the season of rains. Organised by the Banyan Tree, the 90-minute concert, Barkha Ritu, featured an exceptional rendering of raga Miyan Malhar along with other shorter compositions.Consisting of Shadaj, Shuddha Rishabh, Komal Gandhar, Shuddha Madhyam, Pancham, Shuddha Dhaivat, Komal Nishad and Shuddha Nishad, Miyan Malhar, attributed to Miyan Tansen, is a popular raga of the Malhar group given its association with the season that not only brings climatic respite but is also a phenomenon that the large part of an agrarian country like ours awaits. The Malhar-anga is expressed via the vault from Rishab to Pancham originating from the Madhyam, and also by interplay between the two Nishads. The absence of teevra swaras (sharp notes) gives the illusion of rain in its all grandeur.The season, the raga, the instrument and the artiste &#8212; all played a crucial role, together, to create a make-believe atmosphere of rain pouring down on splendidly on the Jhelum.Panditji ended his programme with two compositions in raga Kaushik Dhwani which is a raga whose roots are in the Bilaawal thaat. In Kaushik Dhwani, Rishabh and Pancham are not used and the rest of the swaras are shuddha. The first composition was in Dadra tala and the second in Teen Tala, a choice of rhythms which reflected the splendid adaptability of a particular raga. Both compositions were interspersed with few different ragas of the same thaat.Inventive styleThe performance of Kaushik Dhwani showcased the veteran's iconic ability to improvise on an instrument, which was essentially meant to be used for percussion, and use it as a lead in Indian classical ensembles. His inventive style which crossed traditional lines of the genre created an instant rapport with the youth present. He was at his creative best to prove the adaptability and flexibility of Indian classical music.The evening proved once again that Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma is getting younger and bolder with his experiments. Since the '70s, there is no sign of his will to push the boundaries relenting.He was accompanied by Pandit Ram Kumar Mishra of Banaras who deserves quite the admiration for the ease with which he kept pace with the senior artist. Having seen him as a child prodigy and witnessed him grow through the time, this proved to be one of his memorable performances. Deepak Kalra was on the tanpura.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/07/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/07/30/stories/2010073050170200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/07/30/images/2010073050170201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUnleashing melody Santoor maestro Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma in performance.
p14
ss.