(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGlory recaptured
p3
sVnews
p4
VThis was an altogether different programme of Hindustani music linked to Hyderabad&#8217;s glorious musical past. Ustad Papa Khan and Ustad Sikander Khan were court musicians of the seventh Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan. Both these musicians were the sons of Ustad Hussein Baksh of Saharanpur who was himself a court musician of Mir Mehboob Ali Khan of the Asaf Jahi dynasty.Papa Khan was a renowned tabla player and was an integral part of the court of the Nizam, giving accompaniment for one or the other concert or  playing solo.He was honoured with the title of Shahi Tabla Nawaj. A musical session was organised in their memory by the AP Department of Culture and Sangeet Sevalaya Academy at Indira Priyadarshini Auditorium last week.It began with a devotional number by Deepak Kiran and Mahender with Bhola Sankar and Yousuf Khan on the tabla. A sarangi recital by child artiste Sanjana and a sitar recital by Aradhana followed. Then there was a solo tabla performance  by Harishankar Sharma that was marked especially by the play of matta taal with nine beats. Later, Jaywant Naidu appeared with his Hawaiian guitar and presented raga Malkauns.He played a short alaap followed by a composition in medium tempo in teen taal. The brisk jhala was interesting. P. Murali and Mohd Hussain Khan lent support on percussion.The major musical events included a sarangi duet by Delhi-based pair Sohail Yusuf Khan and Mohd Aslam Khan with the tabla accompaniment provided by Nizamuddin Javed of AIR. Sohail Yousuf Khan is the grandson of Padma Bhushan Ustad Sabri Khan, while Mohd Aslam Khan is the son of noted sarangi player Sayeed Ur Rahman.They started with raga Megh, an apt rendition for the monsoon season. The alaap in raga Megh was followed by a composition in jhap taal, a 10 beat cycle, and another fast-paced composition in teen taal, a 16-beat cycle.They presented a lilting folk tune. Then Sohail played a short tappa.Sarangi being a difficult and rare instrument, it was really heartening to watch these young musicians taking to it. They were accompanied by Najamuddin Quadri on the tabla. The concluding programme was a tabla solo by Ustad Manju Khan, also from New Delhi. He is the son of Ustad Habeebuddin Khan of the Ajrada Gharana. Manju Khan presented some gats and peshkar on the tabla and also demonstrated different percussion syllable combinations of Ustad Ahmed Jaan Tirakhwah of the Arjad Gharana displaying wizardry in Tishra Gati, as a sample. There were some more musicians who took part in the festivities.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/07/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/07/11/stories/2008071150440300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/07/11/images/2008071150440302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUstad Manju Khan.
p14
ss.