(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith a mien of dignity
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANS. Sowmya's vocal recital for the Music Connoisseurs Club found the artiste in good form, her voice in fine fettle. With a line-up of compositions that drew strength from weighty ragas, the concert was distinguished by a mien of dignity. Muthuswami Dikshitar's `Vatapi Ganapathim' (Hamsadhwani) contributed to a traditional start, the kalpanaswaras pitched as apt poruttams for the line, `Hamsadhwani Poojitha.' The fact that the swaras were limited to a strict minimum enhanced their effect and relevance.Salient aspectsA dignified exposition of Devamanohari followed, salient pidis adding definition and interpolated between intricately-wrought, freewheeling passages.The violinist responded with verve, in like manner, the deft single-avartana swaras at two different eduppus in the composition, `Yaarukkuthaan Theriyum' holding considerable interest. The calm and composure with which `Enthamuddho,' Tyagaraja's oeuvre of singular beauty in the raga Bindumalini was rendered, did ample justice to the pensive mood of the composition.The Khambodi alapana had its commencement and greater elaboration in the upper register. This made for a studied, appreciable contrast between the alapana fortified in the tara sthayi and the commencement of the Tyagaraja kriti, `Elara Sri Krishna' at the madhya sthayi shadja, moving down to the mandra sthayi.A Tamil composition highlighted classic shades of Arabhi before the main piece in Bhairavi. The Bhairavi alapana featured an interesting build-up with ravai sangathis, time-tested pidis and intertwined sancharas. In the piece, `Ivarkkum Enakkum,' the assured gait of the niraval was followed by kalpanaswaras in two speeds, with the melkala swaras offering variety by alighting on dual eduppus.Violinist Embar S. Kannan played with restraint and delicacy. There were glides and rapid passages aplenty in his Bhairavi delineation which would have acquired greater value by dwelling on longer karvais and developing self-contained areas, as the frequent excursions traversing the scale offered continuous movement and little repose.Neyveli Narayanan on the mridangam provided satisfactory support and a competent tani.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012601490600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/26/images/2007012601490601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSTRICTLY TRADITIONAL: S. Sowmya.
p14
ss.