(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStriking moments
p3
sVnews
p4
VPravin Godkhindi and Mysore M. Manjunath presented jugalbandi under the auspices of ragavaibhava at Vasudevacharya Bhavana. The two accomplished maestros of flute and violin, had Udayaraj Karpoor and Anoor R. Ananthakrishna Sharma as their rhythm-accompanists on tabla and mridanga respectively.Throughout, the concert exhibited every sign of repletion of brilliant display of bravura and dexterity. Spontaneity of imagination, immaculate movements, won wide appreciations and applauses, in spite of a few reservations from aspirants of absorbing melody and lulling moods.Planning and visualisation of the program facilitated sumptuous opportunities for both to emerge with admirable virtuosity. Nevertheless, when that panache inadvertently turned into a feat of flamboyance, those gentle wafts one expected to emanate from the instruments of such artistes, with a natural desire of cherishing an evening of balmy moments for long, did not fully realise.All the necessary elements of both Carnatic and Hindustani music enriched the styles of the performers. It was amazing to watch how all the artistes on the stage successfully brought forth a confluence of such subtle nuances in matters of both specific tunes and the right rhythm they had selected to suit the occasion.Manjunath prefaced the concert with impressive overtures in Poorvikalyani (&#8220;Jnanamosagarada&#8221; -Thyagaraja); Pravin extended and expanded that warmth with elaborations in Jog reaching striking climaxes. In all these areas, sections of saathsangaths (the melodic quarters and the drummers improvising at the same time) substantiated the artistes' scholarship and extempore.Vara (a lesser-known raga - a derivative of Karaharapriya, sans rishabha and panchama) with its equivalent, Bageshri-Ang-Chandrakauns (in Hindustani music) gave a wide scope for intricate movements, a welcome exposure to a novel musical experience.The focus of the concert Hemavati presented in the framework of a raga-tana-pallavi revealed multifaceted ingenuity vouching for these imaginative artistes &#8211; a blend of tradition and innovation.Exhaustive tani avartana followed sargams passing through ragas like Natakuranji, Shankara, Amritavarshini, Bairagi Bhairav, Kedar, Dvijavanti and so on. Aanoor's exemplary restraints and propriety commanded all commendations; his fine touches supplemented the soothing melodic element.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/12/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/12/10/stories/2010121050920300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/12/10/images/2010121050920301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPravin and (below) Manjunath Expressive
p14
ss.