(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VChaste classical compositions
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULSeated at one piano,  Chantal de Salaberry from Belgium and Fareed Curmally from Mumbai played  classical compositions of the great composers to the delight of Western music enthusiasts in Thrissur. The venue was Chetana Music Academy.What motivated the globe-trotting musicians to choose the Academy as their only port of call in Kerala was Bohemia, a grand piano the institution had imported from Czechoslovakia last year.The pieces played by the duo showcased their   experience in presenting such  concerts. They opened with Mozart's `Sonata in D Major (K.381).'Believed to be composed during the middle of 1772, the classical period in the history of Western music, Sonata in D Major for four hands on one piano was performed by Mozart and  his sister Nannerl, an accomplished pianist herself. She had joined Mozart to play the composition at arch-Episcopal court in Salzburg in September 1780.K.381 highlighted  the  dexterity of the musicians in the three movements of `exposition,' `development' and `recapitulation' of a typical Sonata.While the modulations in the first movement in Allegro (quick) was remarkable, the expressions in the second movement in Andante (rather slow) and that in the third in Allegro molto (quicker) were inspiring.Bewitching pieceThe second number of the same composer was Sonata in B Flat Major (K.358).It had a bewitching romantic movement in Adagio (very slow) and a cluster of tied notes in the third movement in Presto molto (very quick).The remarkable feature about Schubert's music for piano duo is the  length and diversity of his major works, including Divertissements A L'Hongroise. The number received a vigorous treatment in the hands of the duo.  The 30-minute  piece embraced folk elements, a demarcating mark of the composer's esoterism.The post-interval recital was anchored mainly on the Six Ancient Epigraphs of the impressionist composer Claude Debussy. The numbers were  `To invoke Pan, God of the Breeze,' `For an unmarked Grave,' `To make the Night auspicious', `For the Dancer with ringing bracelets,' For the Egyptian Dancer' and `To thank the morning drizzle.'Salaberry and Curmally concluded with Brahms Hungarian dances from Book One. No: 4 in F Minor and No: 1 in G Minor had a surfeit of enchanting melodies.The concert was arranged in association with European Piano Teachers' Association (EPTA) Indian Associates, as part of the second world tour of the musicians.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/22
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/22/stories/2006092200620200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/22/images/2006092200620201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSCALES OF EXCELLENCE: Chantal de Salaberry from Belgium and Fareed Curmally from Mumbai playing a piano duet.
p14
ss.