(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStructuring a new thalam
p3
sVnews
p4
VK.K. GOPALAKRISHNANPayyannur-based mridamgam artiste Harimohanan  has created a new thalam  called `Sivapalathalam.'"I am dedicating this thalam in memory of my father, the late Nadanam Sivapalan, an illustrious Kathakali and Bharatanatyam artiste. Unfortunately, he did not earn the recognition he deserved as he was  confined to the northern hamlets of Kerala during most of his artistic life," explains Harimohanan.Shivapalan master was a disciple of Guru Chandu Panicker and had worked as dance director for a few years at Gemini studio in Chennai.Dedicated researchInspired by the rich thala patterns in our folk traditions and art forms like Ottanthullal, Shivapalatham is the result of Harimohanan's dedicated research for several years. He has also drawn on his experience as an artiste for more than three decades."Although quite unique, traditional Keralite thalams like Lakshmi, Marmam and Kundanachi are fast disappearing. My effort is to enrich and correlate these patterns with the thalas used in Carnatic music, with specific calculations," he explains.The speciality of Shivapalathalam is that it is based on 13-and-a-half beats. According to Harimohanan, the Chennai-based veteran mridangam artiste T.K. Murthy, complimented him when Harimohan demonstrated the thala before him.Several other percussionists, both in Kerala and outside, have approved the rare structure and aesthetics of Shivapalathalam, he claims.He recalls that veteran thala scholar and composer A.S.N. Nambeesan appreciated the unique Keralite flavour in Shivapalathalam and advised Harimohanan to popularise it in Kerala. Harimohan has also evolved a methodology for using this thala for Carnatic vocal recitals, in all the three stayis, namely mandra, madya and tara."With the blessings of my gurus and senior maestros, perhaps, I will be able to popularise it.  Now, my attempt is to introduce this thala in percussion ensembles in Kerala," says Harimohanan, a self-taught artiste.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/09
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/09/stories/2006060900780200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/09/images/2006060900780201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VA NEW RHYTHM: Harimohanan has been inspired by thala patterns in the traditional art forms of Kerala.
p14
ss.