(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRhythm of the edakka
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULThripunithura Krishnadas' 15-minute recital on the edakka was a piece of consummate artistry. His programme in connection with the Chembai Music Festival at Guruvayur saw musicians and music fans make a beeline to meet him and express their admiration.He played the  Swati kirtanam, `Deva deva kalayami' (Mayamalavagoula raga, Rupaka tala) accompanied by the violin, mridangam and ghatam. Amazing purity ofshrutiandgamakaspunctuated by skilful improvisation made the rendition a memorable one.Symbol of cultureEdakka has been the soul of Kerala music. It is usually used to accompany  Sopana Sangaeetham; its potential as a musico-percussion instrument has been rarely explored in the past."But I was determined to change this `accompaniment status' right from the time I began to play the instrument," said Krishnadas, one of the heirs to the  Mundempally Krishna Marar linegage, references to whom are replete in Kottarathil Sankunny's `Ithihyamaala.'Thegurukuladisciplining under the doyen Ramamangalam Rama Marar helped him master all thekshetra vadyasas necessitated by tradition. An innate taste for classical music made him a fan of Carnatic music and he made it a point to listen to concerts by masters. This helped him learn the ragas and kirtanas.Attempts to reproduce them on the edakka were successful and eventually  a formalarangetramof an edakka concert was held. Since then Krishnadas never had to look back. He went on to produce two albums that have already gone into several editions.What makes the edakka an intricate instrument to play is the absence of any fixed key or fret. One has to solely depend on the pressure exerted by the palm for the selection ofswaras. For the same reason, it has to be self- taught. But a keen sense ofshrutiis a must. The instrument is highly sensitive to temperature variations too."Perhaps the edakka is the only instrument that is a unique symbol of our hoary culture," Krishnadas pointed out. Believed to be Siva's gift to Banasura, in response to the former's intense penance, it has 64podippus(coloured woollen balls) that represent the 64 fine art forms.The fourjeeva kols(short rods) from which they are suspended stand for the four Vedas and the two leather surfaces depict the sun and the moon. The sixshastrasare represented by the six holes on the circular frame.Thekachaon which the instrument is suspended is believed to be thenaga(snake) on Siva's neck.As it has religious connotations, the instrument,  once assembled, is never kept on the floor, he explained.Consummate artisteKrishnadas' artistry received a boost when he was presented in Chennai during the December season a few years back by violinist V.V. Ravi.Seasoned connoisseurs in Chennai were spellbound when Krishnadas beat out Carnatic kirtanas in different ragas accompanied by the violin and the mridangam.Thripunithura Krishnadas has played for songs in `Ashtapadi,' `Devasuram,' `Kamaladalam, Kalyanaraman,' `Dada Sahib,' and `Achaneyanenikkishtam,' to mention only a few.The Mohanlal-starrer `Vadakkunnathan' is the latest among them.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/12/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/12/23/stories/2005122302130200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/12/23/images/2005122302130201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGIFTED PERCUSSIONIST: Thripunithura Krishnadas.
p14
ss.