(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDevotional fervour for the purists
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIThe closure of Ravindra Bharati main theatre for repairs has come for good, for some, as the Department of Culture, Andhra Pradesh started organising rare  programmes of folk and classical origin at the open-air façade of the theatre, around the statue of  Ghantasala. Quite a few known and unknown artistes are invited to perform. And another positive side of this effort is that these  programmes are attracting huge crowds who prefer to  stay till late night, braving the chill weather.This week's schedule was the rendition of devotional music and most of the invitee singers were classical musicians. Chaitanya Brothers - Varanasi Venkateswara Sarma and Bukkapatnam Krishnamacharya of Visakhapatnam, chose to render AnnamacharyaSankeertans.Sakala Santikaramuwas an appealing opening.Itu Ninu Teliyaga Enthativaramuevoked devotional spirit.Kolanidopariki Gobbilloof Annamayya brought in traditional festive atmosphere. There were two compositions in praise of Goddess Lakshmi.Sudharani, the second singer renderedPoojalu Cheya Poolu Techanu. Sruti Neevu Gati Neevu, Janani Sivakamini also entertained the audience. Sudharani was accompanied by  Bala Kameswara Rao. The latter's rendition ofHarikatha, Ghantasala  rendered inPalleturufor the character of Relangi  was a beauty. Ganapati on violin Sridhar ( mridangam), Srinivasa Sarma (keyboard), Jayakumaracharya (tabla) rendered instrumental support.Farewell concertFlying down from the U.S., where he has set up base, young vocalist Srikanth was in town for about three months before he decided to pack bags recently and fly back last week. That was just when Hyderabad Music Circle organised a concert for him at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha on Saturday.In the company of S.V. Ramana Murthy on violin and G. Ramachandran on mridangam, Srikanth once again  revealed the beauty of his blessed voice and its melodic appeal while passing through differentgamakas. Equally at ease being a vocalist and violinist, he belongs to a family of musicians. His concert proved to be reflective of his experience and confidence.He opened the recital withSahana Varnamthat created a pleasant atmosphere.Seethapathe, Naa ManasunainKhamasof Thyagaraja stood out as an example of how akritishould be rendered meaningfully, keeping to the melody.Sogasuga Mridanga TalaamuinSriranjanimaintained that tempo. The essaying of the raga and theswarkalpanathat came later were both enjoyable.Now it was the turnragam-tanam-pallavi, a difficult exercise. The chosen raga wasShanmukhapriya. He leisurely delineated the enchanting melody. Thetanampart was quite invigorating while thepallaviwas a bit complicated, but executed well. It was a pleasant musical evening indeed.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/13/stories/2006011301990300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/13/images/2006011301990301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSrikanth.
p14
ss.