(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHarmony in high tide
p3
sVnews
p4
VVENKATESAN SRIKANTHThe monsoon  delayed its date with Delhiites,  but the Vadakku Vaasal Trust, which publishes a Tamil monthly magazine from the Capital, did have its date with Delhi rasikas this season. As a result, it rained Carnatic music  this weekend during the Monsoon Music Festival, organised by the Trust at the Delhi Tamil Sangam auditorium.Aruna Sairam, who was featured on the last day of the festival, won the hearts of the rasikas by steering every phase of her three-hour concert to a delightful experience. It was also a concert driven by team spirit, in which all the participating artistes had a good understanding amongst each other till the end. The outcome of such a concert soothed the senses and hearts of the rasikas.Two speedsAruna began her concert with the Ata tala varnam in the raga Bhairavi, which was neatly presented in two speeds, up to the charanam and then in one faster speed.Dikshitar's "Anandamritakarshini", in the raga Amritavarshini, was marked with creative formats of swaraprastara towards the end. Tyagaraja's "Nannuvidachi", in the raga Ritigowla underwent fine treatment and was emotive. Earlier, she presented a fine alap of the raga.Similarly, Uthukadu Venkatasubramanian's, "Aalaavadhu yennaaloo", in the raga Paras, and Tyagaraja's "Vandanamu Raghunandhana" in the raga Sahana also underwent fine treatment.While presenting Ponnaiah Pillai's slow tempo "Amaba Neelambari", in the raga Neelambari, Aruna brought both the raga as well as the sahitya bhava to the fore.The main offering of the recital, a Tamil composition of Gopalakrishna Bharati, "Tiruvadi saranam" in the raga Kamboji, was marked by a detailed and fine delineation of the raga, creative niraval of the phrase "Aduttu vanda yennai tallal aagadu harahara yendru sonnalum podaado", and a lively swaraprastara later.H.N. Bhaskar, who provided the violin support, proved his manodharma talents in the swaraprastara of  Amritavarshini, and again while delineating the ragas Ritigowla and Kamboji. Whether it was an accompaniment for the songs, for the creative aspects like niraval and swaraprastara, or even for the abhang and bhajans that Aruna presented (after the main piece), J. Vaidyanathan (mridangam) and S. Karthic (ghatam), had a thorough understanding of the proceedings and played accordingly, enhancing the overall outcome. Their accompaniment was a treat to the rasikas and their taniavartanam in Adi tala was enjoyable.Other artistes who participated in this festival were Nithyashree Mahadevan (vocal) on the opening day and Revathi Krishna (veena) on the second day. This is the second music festival organised by this publishing entity.The efforts are laudable per se. Nevertheless, the mini functions on each of the three days with half-a-dozen speakers each, endless speeches and honouring rituals, etc., before the concert could have been avoided.As the actions of this organisation already speak for themselves, there wasn't any need for words to speak so loudly.  All the verbosity ensured that the concerts had to go on till around 10 p.m., inconveniencing rasikas coming from far-off places.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072101120200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072101120201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VENTRANCED! Aruna Sairam's recital was marked by creative formats and emotive treatment.
p14
ss.