(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSwinging to the beats
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe palatial old houses of North  Kolkata cherish anecdotes of their legacy that are fabulously popular as fables nowadays. The Adhicarys of Bahubazar too have their share of nostalgia but with a difference. They sincerely strive to hold on to the grand traditional rituals. One such ritual is the musical offerings to Radha-Govind Jiu, their residing deity, during a five-day long Jhulan festival culminating in Rakhi.Due to this centuries old annual ritual their residence became famous as Jhulan-bari. Accompanied by the music-loving aristocrat hosts on the pakhawaj, great legends like Jadu Bhatta offered Dhrupad, since Khayal was unheard of in those days. In keeping with the tradition the Jhula-Jatra Music Festival commences with Dhrupad recitals every year.This year&#8217;s fest opened with Kaveri Kar&#8217;s Dhrupad recital. In sheer contrast to the manly power associated with Dhrupad, her delicate feminine style, consciously and carefully carved by legendary Ustad Rahim Fahimuddin Dagar, came as a surprise. But lack of emotion diluted the allure of her soft, sweet voice. With an eye on symmetry she rendered alap followed by a Chau tala composition in Bhupali, a pentatonic evening raga. Apurvalal Manna infused some spirited sath-sangat. The simple rhythmic variants in the dhamar, set to Desh, were rather tame. The closing composition in fast Shool tala did not appeal either.Khayal exponent Vidyadhar Vyas cast a spell on the third evening. Raga Gaud Malhar, as etched by him, unfurled petal by petal during slow elaboration. Later even on an increased tempo he retained its meandering gait and features, steering clear of resembling ragas with superb precision. Three different compositions focused on special angles of the raga. Highly imaginative bol-banav and varied taan patterns were incredibly dynamic.A traditional &#8216;jhoola&#8217; was followed by an enthralling bhajan; distinctly his forte. In keeping with the Paluskar parampara, he chose small lyrical phrases, filled them with different hues of melody steeped in emotion. Varied tempi intensified the mood to the extent of portraying an ecstatic Meera singing &#8220;Charana-kamala par shir, Chalo mana&#8221;. Ananda Gopal Bandopadhyay and Jyoti Goho offered admirable support on the tabla and harmonium respectively.Yaman, delineated in its romantic mood by sarod player Suraranjan, was the opening raga of the last evening. The alap-jod-jhala followed by gatkari in medium tempo Rupak tala was deftly presented. Pleasant combinations of notes, sharp taans, neat zamzama (speedy phrase a la gitkiri of the tappa in vocal parlance) and innovative tihais enhanced the frivolous feature of this vast raga&#8217;s multifarious personality. A beautiful Teen tala composition in Malkauns, decked up with subtle rhythmic permutations, followed next. He signed off with a raagmalika-like dhun set to Kaherwa. Soumen Nandi was supportive on the tabla.Paromita Bhattacharya, an aspiring khayal and thumri singer training with Pandit Arun Bhaduri and Vidushi Purnima Chaudhury, closed the festival with emotive thumri and thrilling jhoola and dadra. Vocalists Saptarshi Chakraborty, Sugata Chatterjee and violinist Vidyut Mishra&#8217;s recitals also sparked hope. Veteran Kartick Kumar&#8217;s Chaturang Malhar, once again, confirmed that such heavily blended ragas look their best during the alap only and not beyond.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/05/stories/2008090550780200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/09/05/images/2008090550780201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSpellbindingPandit Vidyadhar Vyas.
p14
ss.