(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn honour of service
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeteran Hindustani music organiser G.V. Mulky was felicitated by the Gururao Deshpande Sangeetha Sabha led by renowned vocalist Pandit Vinayaka Torvi and G.S. Hegde at the Canara Union Hall on Sunday. There were music four music programmes in his honour. Dhananjay Hegde's concert was marked by fine intonations and clarity of sahitya. Though there were a couple of rough edges, they didn't mar his performance. A well thoughtout Lalit, was the highlight of the performance. Allaiya Bilaval (similar to Bilahari of Carnatic music) was another impressive performance. His extraordinary talent and expertise lent the ragas robustness and depth. Ravindra Katoti (harmonium) and Ravindra Yavagal (tabla) enriched the recital.This was followed by a moving vocal recital by a noted expert singer Lalith J. Rao. She is one of the leading singers of Agra gharana. It was really a unique treat of classical music. With her compact interpretations, she unfolded the characteristic nuances of rag Bahaduri Todi. She sang "Hey Mahadev" (vilambit) and "Sajjan ki samvaro" (drut). Her singing had an apparent simplicity but carried with it an aesthetic opulence. Madhyalaya composition "Bat joti rang hai Kanhaiya" and Madmad Sarang (also known as Madhyamavathi Sarang) brimmed with emotional ripples which also brought out a good response from her co-artistes Gowrang Kodical (tabla) and Vyasmurthi Katti (harmonium).The hori in Bhairavi "Hari naa maaro pichkaari" (vilambit), "Shyam naa bhar pichakari" and "Kesar rang pichakari" regaled the audience.RamanavamiWhat was wonderful about the Hyderabad Brothers, D. Raghavachari and D. Seshachari, was the way they transformed their intuition and instinct to give an aesthetic orientation to their performance, at the Ramaseva Mandali, Chamarajpet, as part of Ramanavami concerts. Their felicitous rendition was enhanced by the stunning presentation of ragas and keerthanas carefully selected. Happily accompanied by S. Varadarajan (violin), S.Harikumar (mridanga) and Dayananda Mohite (ghata), they rendered "Nijamarmamulu" (Umabharana), "Evarani neetana" (Devamrithavarshini), "Neekela dayaraadu" (Sarasangi, with alapana and swaras), and others. Delightful sancharas spread over Kokilapriya for raga, tana and pallavi ("Nannu brovarada Ramachandra") brought to fore the soaring inspiration, sense of balance and compelling technique.M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/04/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/04/29/stories/2005042903300300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/04/29/images/2005042903300301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.