(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical offerings
p3
sVnews
p4
VMaha Sivaratri celebrated in different ways by different people. Sujanaranjani, the academy promoting classical music, celebrated the festival with a Carnatic musical event. Many young artistes were invited to take part in the event. The best suited theme to engage all the artistes was to render Panchartana Kirtanas of Thyagaraja, followed by solo concerts of some of the leading young artistes. The percussionists played the Talavadya compositions, thus serving the dual purpose of praying to Lord Siva and participating in the Pancharatna Kirtana Ganam as well.The decade-old Sujanaranjani also has a music academy engaged in promotion of classical music by teaching and arranging concerts of young artistes. The Thyagaraja Pancharatna Kirtana Ganam was followed by solo concerts by Visalakshi, Bhagyalakshmi, K. Kalyani, K. Padmavathi, Ranjani Sivakumar and Tejaswini. They rendered kirtanas of Thyagaraja, Deekshitar and Annamayya. Lalitha and Sivani, disciples of P.V. Subba Rao, noted vocalist and president of Sujanaranjani gave good performances displaying great promise.Later, noted young vocalist S. Venumadhav rendered the famous Thyagaraja kirtana Siva Siva Yanarada in Panthuvarali. His was a mellifluous rendition with perfect bhava expression setting the words of Siva in different swara sthayis. It was then the turn of the percussion group to mark the &#8216;Sivalingodbhavam'. This featured T.P. Balasubrahmanyam on mridangam, Jayakumaracharya on tabla and rhythms, B. Janardhan on ghatam, O. Rajasekar on violin and Mahesh on kanjira; all known artistes. It was Nadabhishekam to Lord Siva.There commenced again the solo performances that started with a duet by Panduranga Sarma and V. Rajiv pair who rendered Ranidi Radu in Manirangu and Rama Neepai Tanaku in Kedaram of Thyagaraja. The other singers were Sai Karthikeya, Kalyana Sundaram and Revanth. Later O. Rajasekar and B. Pawan Singh presented violin solos. M. Seeta Rama Sarma, secretary of Sujanaranjani also took stage and revealed his musical sense in rendering a few of Annamacharya kirtanas and traditional bhajans.The concert presented by Venumadhav and P.V. Subba Rao acquired the real solo concert image. S. Venumadhav, known for his melody and expression opened with Nadatanumanisam of Thyagaraja in Chittaranjani. Later he came out with some of rare untouched Annamacharya kirtanas. One rare number of Annamacharya &#8212; Mari Tanu Bhogamulu Maya Vilasamulu in Shanmukhapriya was his main offering. The raga delineation was packed with nuances and swarakalpana in kriti was rhythmically arranged. Aakati Velala in Hindustani raag Jog, Maruni Nagaridanda in Kalyani and Tandanana were the popular numbers he presented. Rajasekhar on violin and Karra Srinivasa Rao on Mridangam lent support. The second concert was that of P.V. Subba Rao. Compositions of Thyagaraja, Ramadasu and Thoomu Narasimha Dasu and a few devotional numbers figured. B. Pawan Singh on violin, B. Janardhan on mridangam and Gunaranjan on tabla supported him.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/11/stories/2011031150150300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/11/images/2011031150150301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVocal treat (Clockwise from top) Panduranga Sarma and Rajeev; S Venumadhav and P.V. Subba Rao.
p14
ss.