(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA treat for the ears
p3
sVnews
p4
VSpic Macay has once again come out with &#8216;Virasat 2010' across the city under the aegis of the Hyderbad chapter. HCU auditorium played host to full-fledged classical music and dance performances in the evenings at Hyderabad Central University auditorium.Dr. Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana's vocal concert was enlightening to the youth and students who thronged the auditorium. The veteran teacher presented a piece each from the compositions of the Trinity of Carnatic music. Opening with Muthuswami Deekshitar kriti in Hamsadhwani he went into elaborate swarakalpana which enhanced the raga bhava. Enlightening the audience about the raga Hamsadhwani he brought in a very valid point that it had an affinity to Lord Vinayaka (destroyer of hindrances). The dignity of a Deekshitar composition was presented in its full form.Scaled nuancesThe alapana for Thyagaraja's Undedi Ramudokkade&#8230; scaled the nuances of Harikambhoji. The sangathis and manodharma were chiseled and presented in a neat manner. The flow of the raga was so evident in expression of swaras that it seemed a learning experience to young music enthusiasts. The violin and mridangam served to enrich the recital.Shyama Sastri's composition in Kalyani Himadrisute pahimaam.. with a brief alapana was the highlight of the evening for its intricate swarakalpana. The maestro was at his best rendering complex swaras much to the admiration of his audience. The teacher in him was evident at every step of the recital which was unlike the run-of-the-mill concert which more or less showcases technique and skill at handling Carnatic music than form and bhava (meaning and emotion). Dr. Nookala did not have to teach by way of words-his recital which wound up with a Narayana Teertha piece said it all.Violin duetViolin duo, Mysore brothers-Nagaraj and Manjunath bowed their way into the young hearts like supersonic jets. Not to say, it was all speed and no song. The varnam dazzled while the Sri ragam sprang into a tempo with racy swarakalpana to Endaro mahanubhavulu&#8230; The etiquette and manners of the duo was most pleasing as from the word go they were ready to play to the audience's tune. They had the music-loving students virtually at their feet!They spoke eloquently on the universal appeal of Indian classical music which passed the test of all times. Deekshitar's Anandamrutavarshini&#8230; rained nectar as one of the brothers opened his tuneful alapana which was elaborate as it was enticing. The stylistic rendition sets them apart from others of their ilk. The variations in manodharma had a tinge of Western classical influence.The bowing and the treatment meted out to raga Amritavarshini in particular showed signs of Western touch.The swarakalpana was like a vibrant volley ball match to watch. One set of swara had the ghatam player (Nemani Somayajulu) take up the challenge thrown at him and bestow a fitting reply while the other had the mridangist answer through his percussion. It went on and on drawing the audience into keen participation till it reached a crescendo from where it took a complete halt.We need more and more Mysore brothers to inculcate interest and zest in our Gen Next if we are to preserve and perpetrate our classical arts.And Spic Macay is doing exactly this. Kudos!
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/08/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/08/13/stories/2010081350430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/08/13/images/2010081350430302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMysore brothers Manjunath and Nagaraj performing for Spic-Macay.
p14
ss.