(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA memorable experience
p3
sVnews
p4
VSELINE AUGUSTINEThe Madras Musical Association choir which has returned after performing at the International Church Music Festival at Chester Cathedral, U.K., has been invited again by the ICMF to sing in Bern, Switzerland, next year.For the first time the three-day concert schedule at Chester last month included a Festival of Hymns recorded for BBC Television, besides the usual International Night and the Gala Night. The BBC will telecast the programme on September 10.The festival carried 15 choirs in all, singing as separate choirs and as a mass choir under the baton of Maestro Sir David Willcocks and Paul Leddington-Wright to the accompaniment of the English Symphony Orchestra, the American piano duo of Stephen Nielson and Ovid Young, and Philip Rushforth on the Pipe Organ. All in the ethereal ambience and acoustic majesty of the Chester Cathedral.  ``To us from the Madras Musical Association it was an astounding experience of goose pimples sizzling the spine and butterfly bellies," said Dr Ravi Santosham, president of the MMA.The brain child of Ellwyn Raymer who has been the ICMF director from inception, the intention is not that of a choir competition but rather a priceless opportunity for Church and Community musicians to rehearse and perform.There were seven choirs from the U.S, the Chester Cathedral Church choir from the U.K. and choirs from India, the Netherlands, the Slovak republic, Switzerland and the Ukraine.Special festivalThe Festival of Hymns was very special. Only the Chester Cathedral choir, the MMA choir, the Czech choir, the Dutch choir and the Ukrainians were on the choir stalls on stage. Familiar and well-loved hymns were sung by everyone present to the awe inspiring sound of the pipe organ, the Fine Arts brass ensemble and the duo pianists.Each of the choirs onstage was asked to sing one special hymn in their native language. ``We sang `Devapitha enthan Meipanallo' (The Lord is My Shepherd) in Tamil to the accompaniment of Stephen Nielson on the piano and our own Augustine Paul conducting his arrangement. The effect was stunning. It was a new experience even to us who have never heard ourselves sound so good," Dr. Santosham said.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072102420600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072102420601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMOMENT TO CHERISH: Members of the MMA choir.
p14
ss.