(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHomage, well paid
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Sishya Prasishyas of legendary gurus Parupalli Ramakrishniah Pantulu and Susarla Dakshinamurthy Sastri who passed on the musical heritage of Thyagaraja to these parts, celebrated the aradhanas of the great gurus with devotional fervour at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram, Vijayawada. On the morning of the inaugural day, a number of musicians garlanded the statue of Parupalli erected at the Alankar centre.The evening programme started with vocal concerts by D. Pranathi, K. Madhavi and Modumudi Sudhakar. Pranati and Madhavi sang Kannatandri napai in Devamanohari and Mamava Sada in Kanada respectively as their main items. K. Lakshmi Sooramma impressed on veena with Varalakshmi, a fine composition in Gowrimanohari. Modumudi Sudhkar, a senior vidwan and a staffer of Akashvani, began the evening's main concert by singing Garudagamana in Nagaswaravali and Sarojadalanetri in Sankarabharanam.The second day's morning programme started with a fine vocal recital by Swarnabharathi and Chaitanya Bharathi who sang the pancharatna keertana Sadhinchene with good coordination. Third day's morning session began with Y. Lakshmi Tripurasundari's vocal. She sang as her main item Paridanamichite of Patnam in Bilahari. The main concert of the third day's evening was P. Janaki's vocal. Janaki is a senior singer working as vocal lecturer in the Government Music College, Guntur. She sang Paramapavana Rama in Poorvikalyani elaborately. Next morning's programmes began with vocals by B.S.S. Anant who sang Vinayaka (Hamsadhvani) and Kasturi Gopalarao who rendered Vatapi in Hamsadhvani and Chalamelara in Margahindolam.The last concert of V.L. Tulasi of Rajahmundry stood as the highlight of the day. She showed ample musical depth and manodharmam. She melodiously sang Pahi Parvata Nandini in Arabhi and Guruleka in Gowrimanohari. Another attractive piece in her concert was Abhayambika Nayaka in Kedaragowla.A group singing of the children of Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu Sangeeta Vidyalayam saw the rendition of Rama Kodanda Rama in Bhairavi and Sitaramaswami of Ramadas in Saveri with admirable coordination. Lanka Annapoorna conducted the group singing. A thrilling rendition of Ghanaraga Pancharatnas of Thyagara followed next. Senior musicians Annavarapu Ramaswamy, Modumudi Sudhakar, B.V. Durgabhavani, P.S. Rao, G. Satishbabu, M. Anjana Sudhakar, M.L.N. Raju, K. Sai Sekhar, P.S. Phalgun and several others participated in the mrindaganam. This was followed by a pleasing veena recital by Emani Lalita Krishna of Hyderabad. She played Siva Siva Siva in Pantuvarali melodiously getting support on flute from her ten-year-old daughter Poornima.The final concert of the five-day musical feast was the violin ensemble led by Guru Annavarapu Ramaswamy and his disciples Bhavani, Satish Babu and P.Nandakumar.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/07/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/07/23/stories/2010072350160200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/07/23/images/2010072350160201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical guru Violinist Annavarapu Ramaswamy.
p14
ss.