(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VHearing with the mind&#8217;s eye
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Akashvani&#8217;s early morning transmissions are indeed pleasing to listen to with soulful contents in its devotional music programme &#8212; the Vandana. One particularly relished the Tulasidas bhajan (&#8220;Shri Ramachandra kripalu bhajaman&#8221;) charmingly rendered by a highly proficient female voice. Equally soulful were the other devotional numbers that followed. The Kabirdas and Saint Bashir episodes were narrated with sobering effects.What delighted most was the Ramayan serial that followed later at 6.30 a.m. This serial was launched more than a quarter of a century ago by the former Director General of Akashvani, A.R. Shinde, with a generous budget of Rs.25 lakhs. The producer and  composer of this serial was none other than  Akashvani&#8217;s just retired  Chief Music Producer, Satish Bhatia, who made a commendable job of it by roping in a large number of well known classical and semi-classical male and female singers, from various parts of the Indian sub-continent, such as  Pandit Bhimsen Joshi and Kavita Krishnamurthy.The entire episode is based on Sant Tulsidas&#8217;s immortal creation, the Ramcharitmanas. The music for the dohas and the  chaupais with the instrumental accompaniment and interludes was  charmingly conceived by Bhatia himself. It was thus a delight to observe the overwhelming impact of this remarkable episode.  This particular serial continues to receive a great response from a very large number of listeners  across the country for the last 25  years and more.The late Pandit Gajananrao Joshi was a versatile musician,  a highly proficient Hindustani classical vocalist and also a brilliant solo violinist, besides being a brilliant teacher. He was the son and the pupil of the late legendary Gwalior doyen, Pandit Anant Manohar Joshi of Aundh in Maharashtra.  One of the Tuesday night broadcasts of &#8220;Chayan&#8221; featured Joshi&#8217;s recordings of khayals in raga Bihagada. It is a pity that this particular broadcast failed to reveal the true potential and charm of his singing, because this particular recording was made towards the fag end of his life when his vocal prowess and musical capability were at  their lowest.It was a delightful experience listening to a couple of sarangi recitals by the young Kamal Ahmed Sabri of Delhi and by the veteran sarangi maestro of Mumbai, Ustad Sultan Khan. While the young Sabri gave polished renderings in the Sunday Morning Concert with the ragas Komal Rishabh Asavari and Shuddha Sarang, the elder maestro enthralled with his exquisite rendering in raga Bihag.Baljit Singh&#8217;s recital on the taar shehnai in raga Alaiya Bilawal was pleasing to the ears, even though the shades of raga Nat Bilawal seemed to be  creeping in quite often.The National Programme of Music on Saturdays seemed to have lost its earlier charm,  featuring sub-standard artistes who have yet to establish themselves as musicians of repute. One hardly knows of  Babulal Sharma, the flautist who was one of the featured artistes in this slot recently. His renderings in raga Yaman failed to impress. It would be worth while to make this prestigious programme a once-a-month affair and  enhance the fees of the reputed artistes.The Gandharva channel of World Space Radio featured the young sitarist Ustad Shujaat Khan who spoke about his illustrious father, the  legendary Ustad Vilayat Khan&#8217;s evolving of the gayaki ang on the sitar. Having lost his father at a very tender age the latter started learning vocal music from his maternal grandfather, the late Ustad Bande Hasan Khan of Sirmor (Nahan) durbar and grew up as a highly proficient classical vocalist. He had made up his mind to become a professional vocalist. His mother however dissuaded him  from doing so and insisted he  remain a sitar player since he belonged to a family of renowned sitarists. His love for singing however impelled him to adopt the gayaki-ang into his sitar playing.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/30/stories/2009013050090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/01/30/images/2009013050090201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VProficientSitar exponent Shujaat Khan.
p14
ss.