(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VViolin symphony
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIA gala function was organised at Sundarayya Vignana Kala Kendram to felicitate noted violin virtuoso Peri Sreeramamurthy. In his long journey, Peri Sriramamurthy earned many laurels. He is now a top grade artiste of All India Radio and Doordarshan, presently working as a senior lecturer in the Government College of Music and Dance, Secunderabad.The event was marked by an impressive violin symphony presented by Peri's disciples. The function was well attended. Peri Sreeramamurthy conducted the musical show.The group was arranged in two rows with the first row occupied by concert standard young violinists and the row below it with those still to mature in the art. But the group appeared to have well rehearsed to present that evening with perfect unison andsruthiconformity. Anil Kumar and Sai Kumar, known as Kolanka Brothers, Uma Shankar, Ramesh Pai, Shiva Krishna Swaroop, Tyagaraju (Peri's son) were the more matured artistes who are seen in regular concerts accompanying lead artistes &#151;  vocal or instrumental. Mahesh, Shankar, Phani Bala, Vivek, Sasank and Krishna Chaitanya were the rest of the members of the group.The symphony was so soulful that one hoped of more such experiments in order to attract people to  Carnatic classical programmes. The repertoire had just three melodies and the last one was an experimental presentation inraga malika. Mahaganapatimof Dikshitar inNata, Eka Thalamwas not only symbolic of an auspicious invocation to the concert part but also to the entire show that included the felicitation function.The second wasLatangi. Here too theragawas distributed to different experienced individuals who contributed to each phrase of theragato develop into a beautiful musical picture in itself. The  chosenkritiin this wasMari Vere Dikkevvaruof Patnam Subrahmanya Iyer inJhampa Thalam. Again the entire group presented thekritipart, rendering each line of it quite sweet. Theswarasprastharawas presented with perfect time sense.Then came the last piece, a most memorable experiment, as a three-ragamusical expression conceived by Peri Sriramamurthy inAdi Thalam, Thrisra Nada. Each melodic line has a variegated structure.GowrimanohariandSindhu Bhairavi ragamusical textures set by Peri inthrisramwas a difficult exercise. But once done, the result was good.Therefore, the final number proved a most memorable one in the symphonic experimental music in perfect tempo. P.R.C. Sarma on mridangam, T.P. Bala Subrahmanyam (ghatam) and T.V. Ravi Prakash (tabla) put in a good effort in elevating the total program into a brilliant exercise worth repeating, but by adding some more musical numbers.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/18/stories/2005111801320300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/18/images/2005111801320301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPERFECT UNISON The group appeared to have rehearsed well to achieve sruthi conformity.
p14
ss.