(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSalvation with Rumi
p3
sVnews
p4
VANUJ KUMARAnother interesting aspect of the album is the use of ney, a Turkish wind instrument. The music has been composed by Kanchman Babbar who learnt to play ney and claims to be country's first neyzen or ney playerAt a time when Sufi music is becoming a rage, here comes the original. Recently, Mystica Music launched a compilation of the soulful verses of one of the greatest mystic poets of all times Jalaluddin Rumi. Translated from English and sung by Anandmurti Gurumaa, the album comprises four compositions.Gurumaa went to Istanbul and Cornice, to understand the essence of the works of the 13th Century Turkish scholar, who wrote in Persian. "I have been singing Bulle Shah and Sarmad for long. I was looking for something fresh from Sufism and found it in Rumi. I attended sema, the whirling dances and interacted with the local scholars. I was called a Hindi Sufi there," relates Gurumaa.Amazing similarityShe claims if the listener doesn't get goose bumps after listening to Rumi, he or she doesn't have a heart. She avers there is an amazing similarity between Upanishadic wisdom and what Rumi said. "Both stand for annihilation of the pseudo `I'; giving birth to the birth less."Gurumaa says the most difficult was to what to leave and what to include. "Finally I zeroed in on some 135 poems out of which 20 have been included in the four compositions." Called "Ishq Ka Khanjar", "Iltaja", "Justjoo" and "Kaun Hoon Main", Gurumaa says in the first composition Rumi is asking his Sheikh (guru) Shams Tabreez to transport him to another world, the world of thoughtlessness. He says those who die in love, live eternally."It is quite similar to what Meera said. In the second one he is requesting the guru to come and own him while the third one says one realises his true self in the light of love. The journey may start with one spark but this divine spark is enough to burn all the myths."The last one akin to Vedantic thought. "It questions who you are, a thought, a mind, an emotional body... ."Another interesting aspect of the album is the use of ney, a Turkish wind instrument. Gurumaa calls it a headless instrument. "For a Sufi has to be headless. It has seven holes quite similar to sevenchakrasand its sound is called soundless sound. You don't have to blow into it. One just has to say `hoo' and the music comes out." The music has been composed by Kanchman Babbar who learnt to play ney and claims to be country's first neyzen or ney player.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080401390400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080401390401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFOR A SOULFUL SESSION Anandmurti Gurumaa.
p14
ss.