(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSome enticing variety
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe variety in Hindustani music is enjoyable, but even more fascinating is its richness in style and shades of presentation. We have a number of gharanas and schools interpreting the same set of notes in a different manner. Listening to the different\u000a styles of rendition of these melodies one after the other canexpose you to their exclusive characteristics and beauty in a better manner. Connoisseurs of music in Patna recently had such an opportunity, to listen to at least two styles of Hindustani music, the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana and the Kirana gharana,  at two  music sessions held in the city. While Shruti Sadolikar Katkar presented Khayal singing of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana at a music session held by the Patna chapter of Spic Macay  at the Bhartiya Nritya Kala Mandir auditorium, Rekha Ratnam rendered Khayal in the style of the Kirana school  at the same auditorium at a concert organised by the Bihar Government&#8217;s Department of Culture.The vocalists of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana have been known for presenting uncommon or even rare ragas. In this  concert, Shruti presented Poorvi,  a lovely raga hardly heard these days at public functions. Even raga Tilak Kamod which followed the Poorvi bandishes is generally not preferred by  artistes. Instead, they go for  raga Desh.Shruti has received initial training from her father, Pandit Wamanrao Sadolikar, who had learnt  the art from the founder of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana, Ustad Alladiya Khan. She also  trained under Ustad Gullubhai Jasdanwalla who was known for his rich collection of compositions even in rare ragas. She also took  taleem from Ustad Bhurji Khan&#8217;s son, Ustad Azeezuddin Khan. Presentations of a vilambit (slow tempo) composition in Teen tala of 16 beats and a madhya laya (medium tempo) composition in Ek tala of 12beats in Poorvi were evidence enough of the special emphasis on classicism in the style and her perfect training as well. The singer&#8217;s adept execution of both sharp and flat Ma notes  deserves special mention.  Then followed  a madhya laya composition in yet another evening melody, Tilak Kamod of the Khamaj thaat, and a bhajan in raga Bhairavi. Giving her company  on the tabla was Mithilesh Jha and on the sarangi was Santosh Mishra.Rekha Ratnam&#8217;s Khayal rendition was an altogether different experience. Rekha has received training in  the Kirana style of singing from Ustad Irhad Khan. A lecturer  in the Vocal Department of  Bharatiya Nritya Kala Mandir, Rekha is also deeply influenced by Prabha Atrre.A sensitive portrayal of the ragas has been her forte, and here too Rekha drew attention with the melodic charm in her presentation of raga Yaman, an evening melody of the Kalyan thaat. There was a systematic exposition of notes in the alap, but all through the presentation sensitivity to their nuances was more dominant. Remarkably, this sensitivity to the notes and the mood remained dominant throughout her singing.She presented vilambit laya and madhya laya compositions in Yaman. It was followed by a ragamalika, presenting hosts of melodies. She concluded her singing with a Meera bhajan, &#8220;Kahin dekho ri Ghanshyam&#8221;. Rekha was supported on the tabla by Shantanu, on the harmonium by Santosh and on the tanpura by Vandana.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/07/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/07/04/stories/2008070450310200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/07/04/images/2008070450310201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPerfect trainingShruti Sadolikar Katkar.
p14
ss.