(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VImpressive in parts
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe months from December to February mark the music season in Secunderabad, with each organisation conducting an annual festival. This year's final festival conducted by Sharada Trust for eight days, which began last week, had popular and leading artistes participating. The festival, which allows free entry for the public, was widely attended.Varied presentationsThe reputation of O. S. Thyagarajan is evident in him being chosen by every organisation for such these festivals. Although such repeated performances at short intervals may generate some boredom, OST takes care to introduce variety in each of his concerts. He has, for every thought, a certain adaptation of musical expression, which very few have and while fortunate to hit, he attains perfection of his action; this speaks of his sense of proportion and logic of intellectual vigour.OST, in his concert, included a variety of uncommon ragas and diversity oftalas, making it different from his recent performances. Thevarnaminkedaragowlastarted off well, leading toevarura ninnuvinainmohana (misra chapu), enthanivinvinthurainurmika, (urmikais a rareshudava-shoudavaraga, a derivative ofsimhendramadhyama).Manavinalagiparadatainnalinakanthiwas inspiring withraagabhavaand classicswarakalpana; Sri Venkatagirsha set toadi thalainsuratihad all the embellishments of musical structure. The other items were inadi (thisra nadai), rupakam, misrachapu, khandachapu, etc. OST spent considerable time onkalyani (nijadasa varada).The efforts fell much short of excellence. The elaborate raga contained a galore of repetitions and mostly restricted tobrigasanda-karas, needlessly extending to nearly an hour, all in vain. It ended up as frustration of expectations.A few novel elementsSikkili Gurucharan is a recent find among the promising youngsters and the listener is attracted by his rich voice, vibrant style and nostalgia of GNB. The adaptation of the maestro's inimitable style may be temporarily striking but soon it will prove futile. That he is thinking artist is evident from the format he creates for a concert, although such a design is accepted or aborted.Contemporary singers have a passionate desire for speed, which, they seem to forget, will ruin the melodious content of a musical piece. The result is a wild chase of, what they think is a technique. Gurucharan is no exception. In his selection he chose from the fundamentals like thegeetaiand converted them to concert pieces of classicism. Except that they proved a novelty, there was nothing spectacular. Beside thebhairavi varnam, there were some surprise items likeparamapavaniinranjani, panipathi sayiinjenkaradwani, evarikaiindevamanohari, rajaraja rajitheinniroshi. Again, thethodi krithi, thaye yashoda,proved fuzzy in setting it to a new style but did not impress. RTP was inpoorvikalyaniset toadi thalamand was just in the routine way. Ambika Prasad on the violin was good but he overplayed in the sense, say, for a piece ofalapana, he indulged for a longer time than the main artist. Balaji on the mridangam was accommodative. In short, the concert was good in parts.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/02/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/02/16/stories/2007021600360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/02/16/images/2007021600360301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCONCERTS GALORE Leading artistes grace music season in town.
p14
ss.