(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTraditional rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VKala Sagaram featured an impressive vocal recital by Mohana Santanam at Keyes High School as part of its monthly concert. He was accompanied by Dinakar on the violin, Aravind on the mridangam and Kapa Srinivas on the kanjeera.Mohana Santanam who is an established vocalist in Chennai is the disciple of Mudikonda Venkatramaiah and was under the tutelage of T.R.S. Subramanyam and Ravikiran as well as Srivatsa.He began his recital withTarunia varnam in Khambhoji of Fiddle Ponnuswamy.Gamghanapathein Hamsadhwani of Muthiah Bhagavatar was sung neatly with good vinyasam in tisra nadai. Sriranjani was briefly hummed forSogasuga mridanga talamwith aesthetical swarakalpana and rich ragabhavam. Thyagaraja&#8217;s second pancharathnamDuduku galain Gowla was a good choice to follow. Begada was chosen next for a detailed essay of the ragam. Santhanam brought out the text of the ragam with a traditional approach forManasuana near nammithea rare composition of Patnam in Rupakam.The swarakalapana had the rhythemic phrases.Vadevenkatadriin Vasantha was the next krithi sung neatly. Garudadwani was taken next forTatwameruga taramasung in a fast tempo with speedy swarakalpana reflecting the ragam. The main attraction of the concert was RTP in Bhaiaravi. Santhanam showed maturity in his ragam with good phrases of the ragam. The pallaviRaja Rajeswari Pahimamin Khanda Jhati Triputa talam in chaturasra gathi was rendered with good command over the laya. The neraval was good and reflected the adept knowledge of the artiste.Dinakar supported well on the violin with his alert following and his Bhairavi was good and contributed to the concert. Aravind, a noted mridangam player from Hyderabad, contributed to the success of the concert with his soothing following. His tani in the RTP in Khanda Triputa was very impressive with good laya permutations. Kapa Srinivas on the kanjeera did well and his tani responses were nice. The concluding items of the concert wasAlarachanchalamai, a ragamalika of Annamacharya,Nanoruvilayattuin navarasa Kannada followed by a brilliant tillana in Brindavani of Lalagudi.On the whole it was good team work and Santhanam showed a steady momentum in his concert approach.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/10/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/10/02/stories/2009100250410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/10/02/images/2009100250410301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
V
ss.