(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSongs of spring
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPAlthough still in his 20s, Manish Kumar impressed  with his highly matured musicianship. His  utterances with long glides and tuneful  phrasings were a delight to listen to.The colourfully decorated venue was at the Aditi Women's College, Bawana, and the occasion was a celebration of Vasant Panchami by the staff and students of the college. It was a cool and bright  morning and the  ambience was indeed most desirable to relax and enjoy listening to tuneful music by young artistes.The choral group comprising students of the college provided a most befitting curtain raiser, with the rendering of Saraswati Vandana ("Saraswati Mata Mujhe Gyaan Do").Suniti Dutta, the head of the Department of Music, gave a brief but highly succinct rendering of a khayal in the season's raga Basant. The song "Saras Sugandh' set to madhya Teen tala was pleasing, rendered with utmost clarity and tunefulness in addition to an adroit handling of the raga's basic spirit and character.However, the main attraction of the occasion was the brilliant performance by the guest artiste Manish Kumar Trikha, a young, bright and promising musician.Incidentally, both Suniti and Manish Kumar are disciples of the eminent vocalist and a highly respected guru, Pandit Tejpal Singh, the elder of the renowned Singh Bandhu duo.Renderings in TodiGifted with a smooth and melodious voice, Manish delighted with his renderings in raga Todi, which was an apt choice for that time of the morning. A brief alap was followed by the well-known khayal composition "Sagun Bicharo" set to the 12-beat slow Ek tala. He gave a highly reposeful elaboration to this lovely piece of music. Each of his variations was well conceived and methodical. Although he is still in his 20s, he impressed with his highly matured musicianship. His utterances with long glides and tuneful phrasings were a delight to listen to.He concluded his recital in raga Todi with the mid-tempo Teen tala composition of the legendary Tanras Khan, "Kab Mori Naiyaa Paar Karoge, Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia". Manish beautifully laced it with a number of intricately permuted taan sequences with utmost clarity and boldness. He certainly has a very bright future  and can become one of the top-graded musicians of India.The accompanists for the concert were Mukesh on the harmonium and Pankaj Nigam on the tabla. One has to applaud their role in enhancing the performance by the two vocalists.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/16
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/16/stories/2007031601500200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.