(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMarked by dedication
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe flute is one of the ancient musical instruments. It is identified with Lord Sri Krishna. One should have a well-tested, strong control over the breath. Variations in blowing technique and the tuttukkaras which enable the correct enunciation of the sahitya of the songs presented are the most essentials to be fulfilled. In Karnataka we have some expert and promising flute players.One among them is K.V. Madhura. Trained by a veteran flute maestro B. Shankara Rao, she has been drawing attention of the music and dance rasikas. I was fully convinced with her artistry when I heard her rendering a full-fledged flute recital for and at the Indian Institute of World Culture. Her hard work seemed to be rewarding. Dedication, sincerity in the presentations and unostentatious elegance in the artistry drew the attention.I heard her rendering Thyagaraja's krithi "Tera teeyakaraada" in Gowlipantu raga melodiously. Never in a hurry and fully composed Madhura took up Lathangi for a detailed expansion. The krithi "Marivere" (khanda chapu) was studded with neraval and simple and quiet kalpana swaras. These swaras were sans instrumental jugglery and to the point. "Sadaa madim" (Gambheeravani) provided a fine rhythmic lift to the concert.Madhura was at home in dealing with an intricate like that of Vaagadheeshwari. Though I wished for a better and precise laya, she demonstrated her instrumental skill in the raga alapana. The famous krithi in this raga, "Paramatmudu velage" was appended with a brief neraval and a well planned swaraprastara. She concluded with a lively tillana in Kapi raga. Seasoned accompanists T.S. Krishnamurthy (violin), B.C. Manjunath (mridanga) and Phani Bhaskar (ghata) enriched the flute recital with their useful contributions.One was delighted with the vintage quality music that enraptured the Ananya auditorium in Malleshwara. It was produced by veteran vocalist Hosahalli Venkataram who was performing for the Sankethi Sangeetha Sabha during its three day music festival. Noted scholar Dr. Mathur Krishnamurthy inaugurated the festival. Though visually impaired Hosahalli Venkataram brought to the fore the rustic beauty of music. He could emphasise the genuine musical values in his singing. Notwithstanding the effect of old age, the audience was treated to an unadulterated music. The varna in Vasantha was sung in a lively pace. It was further extended by a few rounds of kalpanaswaras. A brief overture of raga Athana for Jayachamaraja Wadiyar's gem-krithi "Sri Mahaganapathim bhaje ham" and the adjoining chittaiswaras and swaras held mirror to his pure vidwath.His singing was further enhanced by the appropriate support imparted by Mathur Srinidhi (violin) and C. Gurudath (mridanga).M. SURYA PRASADBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/03/stories/2006110301650300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.