(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDominated by melody and manodharma
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKA mellifluous voice, proper training in musical values and inborn aesthetic instincts contributed to the melody that Lakshmi Rangarajan offered at the Tyagaraja festival at Tirupati. Like the elegant lines of calligraphy, she etched the raga sancharas of Purvikalyani (Gnanamosagarada) and Keeravani (Kaligiyunte-gada). Her perception to experience sukham was evident in every item she sang.In particular, her Keeravani development was rich in manodharma, scrupulous in negotiating the sancharas, focussing on the several layers of the raga's perspective.Lakshmi's performance had one message: good music from an artiste can spring only from deep roots. V.V.S.Murari and Melakkaveri Balaji were the violin and mridangam accompanists respectively.Creative process calls for more than mechanical and intellectual expression. It can either sublimate or just be a bare expository exercise. By the alapanas of Hamirkalyani (Maanamu-leda) and Nasikabhooshani (maara/vairi), Sikkil Gurucharan made known his preference for the latter. The major part of the programme was dull. This was somewhat made good towards the end by the Madhyamavati alapana and song "Rama-katha-Sudha." Nagai Sriram (violin) let the sanchara profligacy to get the better of restraint. Krishna Rajan was the mridangist.Padma Narayanaswamy (wife of late KVN), supported by Anuradha Suresh, in their programme gave a glimpse of the efficacy of Ariyakkudi bhani. Though age had its say, the main thrust of Padma Narayanaswamy's singing was marked by tempo tempered by brevity. Anuradha played her youthful role to supplement her mother's effort.Flying startThe Bhairavi varnam "Viriboni" gave a flying start followed by the kirtanas "Brochevarevare" (Sriranjani) "Hechchariga" (Yadukulakhambodi) and "Nanu-Palimpa" (Mohanam). R.K. Sriramkumar (violin) and J. Vaidyanathan (mridangam) contributed their share to make the programme lively.In the field of music, Spartan discipline in the early years grants its rewards when age starts to slow down faculties. This was to be seen in the kutcheri of Bombay Sisters, Saroja and Lalita, when they presented the ragas of Mohanam and Kalyani with great self-assurance. "Ninne-Bhajana" (Nattai) "Evaroora" (Mohanam) and "E-Varamadugudura" (Kalyani) were interpreted with handsome patantara.Usha Rajagopalan (violin) gave in her solo session primacy to sanchara perfection. K.R.Ganesh (mridangam) and Madipakkam Murali (ghatam) lent purposeful accompaniment replete with rhythmic resonance.The apparent effortlessness cancelled the depth Vijayalakshmi Subramaniam aimed at in the rendering of "Entaninne"  -   (Mukhari) "Hechchariga" (Yadukulakhambodi) and "Kaligiyunte" (Keeravani). Though Mukhari failed to sore to heights, the Keeravani development invited attention. M.A. Krishnaswamy (violin) and Neyveli Skanda Subramaniam (mridangam) were co-operative partners in the vocalist's objectives.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081103200600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/11/images/2006081103200601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGOOD MUSIC: Lakshmi Rangarajan.
p14
ss.