(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA festival of sound
p3
sVnews
p4
VSankeertana Sudha, a group singing programme conducted by Modumudi Sudhakar, came as a fine treat in Gayaka Sarwabhowma Sangeeta Parishat festival on the third day. The group consisted of M. Sudhakar, Anjana Sudhakar, Ivaturi Sravanti, K. Lavanya and M. Srutiranjani. Several keertanas composed by great vaggeyakaras of yesteryears like Toomu Narasimhadas, Ramadas, Munipalle Subramanya Kavi, Annamayya, Bommaraju Seetaramadas, Prayaga Rangadas and Thyagaraja were rendered by the group with devotional fervour. Good instrumental support was provided by P. Nageswara Rao on the violin, M.L.N. Raju on the mridangam, I. Anjaneya Sastri on ghatam and Indrakeeladri Sarma on the flute.Another group programme was the thrilling Sruthi-laya ranjani conceived and conducted by mridanga vidushi Dandamudi Sumathi Ramamohan Rao. The participants were Sumathi Ramamohan Rao (mridangam), P. Nandakumar (violin), Indrakeeladri Sarma (flute), Anjaneya Sastri (ghatam) and M. Sayibabu (morsing). With good coordination, the group presented Viriboni varnam, Sri Mahaganapathi (Nata), Sogasuga mridanga talamu and Balamurali's thillana in Brindavani. The highlight was a well-knit ragam, tanam, pallavi in Aditalam with sasabda kriyas in khanda nada and nissabda kriyas in chaturasra gati. This difficult exercise was neatly and efficiently executed by the group.The highlight of the five-day fest was the colourful felicitation of Dandamudi Sumathi Ramamohan Rao. The title &#8216;Sunada Sudha Nidhi' was conferred on her by vidwan Annavarapu Ramaswami on behalf of the Sarajhari Sabha.Violin recitalA brief but enjoyable violin concert by Annavarapu followed the felicitation function. Annavarapu was supported on the violin by his senior disciples B.V. Durga Bhavani and G. Satishbabu. M.L.N. Raju and Haribabu support on mridangam and ghatam. Annavarapu with his veteran-like touch played Navaragamalika varnam, the Panchartna keertana Sadhinchene, his own composition Guruni pogada tarama in Dhanyasi and as the main item, Sarojadala Netri of Syama Sastri in Sankarabharanam. On the morning of the second day of the festival there was a special function where scores of Annavarapu's disciples honoured their beloved guru with Suvarna Gandapenderam through the hands of mridanga vidwan Yella Venkateswara Rao.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/25/stories/2009122550340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/25/images/2009122550340201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN SYNC Group presentations were the highlight of the festival.
p14
ss.