(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelody as team art
p3
sVnews
p4
VS. SIVAKUMARThe lay rasikas are overjoyed while the more learned ones appreciate the effort and do suggest enhancements. Youngsters respond enthusiastically to the entertaining presentations. After all we have only given traditional values a contemporary touchAre you yearning for something new but would settle only for something that represents our culture and our values? Are you also one with the dictum "improvise and innovate or stay stagnant and perish?" Then, welcome aboard  "heartbeat" on a journey through the sea of adventure.Ghatam Karthick has had the privilege of having performed with almost all top artistes. He has also had a healthy interaction with many foreign musicians of repute, during his visits abroad and for reasons of variety has worked with many film music composers.All of this and his other noble thoughts resulted in the laya ensemble, "heArtbeat." It is aptly named, symbolising the very first rhythm of life.The crew deploys a special violin, a product of Yamaha. Called "Silent Violin," it has an inbuilt reverb. It has to be amplified through a speaker to be heard.  The violin component is in the masterly hands of Embar Kannan.The other members are Poongulam Subramaniam on the mridangam, Karthick with his ghatam, Papanasam Sethuraman on the kanjira, U.P. Raju on the mandolin and N. Sundar who can play the tabla or the morsing. It is not mere teamwork. It is "team art."Innovation demands newness and the troupe feels that it is better to have their own pieces (compositions), which permits endless improvisations. It is for reasons of sanctity that heArtbeat doesn't take liberties with the compositions of great masters. Memorable experiences heArtbeat did have its precious moments and faced hours of crisis.An occasion they cherish is when they performed from midnight till 4 a.m. on Sivaratri for Isha Yoga Center. The audience strength was 75,000 and more important they had received the blessings of Sadguru Jaggi Vasudev.Another instance is when they performed in Varanasi. The artistes were aboard a boat rocked by the gentle waves of the Ganges. The audience was seated on the steps on the riverbank, a sight that has not faded from their memory.They encountered a problem once when they lost their electronic sruti box and managed with a drone from the rhythm pad. They do have standby arrangements and resort to substitutions on rare occasions. The stand-in performers are equipped to navigate with care and courage.AcousticsHaving performed at many halls here and abroad, Karthick concludes that some halls are specifically designed for music concerts.The acoustic system is expected to make the artiste feel comfortable and the reward could be a strain-free performance. Artistes should  settle for a reasonable volume level and the determining factor should be fine aesthetic sense.The absence of a proper stage monitor could affect their performance, since the artistes would have a tendency to "push" themselves to be heard. The outcome could be a seeming lack of refinement and a disproportionate physical strain on the artistes.The ensemble has given many stage performances all over India and also travelled to the U.S., Canada, Australia, Singapore and Sri Lanka. The responses to their concerts the world over has been tremendous and the audience has been left in a state of wonderment."The lay rasikas are overjoyed while the more learned ones appreciate the effort and do suggest enhancements. Youngsters respond enthusiastically to the entertaining presentations. After all we have only given traditional values a contemporary touch.``The efforts have been commended and blessed by legendary percussionists, senior artistes, contemporary stars and noted critics which has sustained us," says Karthick.Recently performing for the Nungambakam Cultural Aacdemy, Heartbeat presented a mallari followed by its own composition in the raga Bujangini.The next pieces that were presented were a composition in Kharaharapriya, Tranquillity in Jog, a Ragam, Thanam, Pallavi in Saraswathi and a Kavadi Chindhu. The last piece was titled "medley."True to its name and nature this final piece touched Mozart, other Indian language compositions and even included ``Ra Ra Venugopa pala" (Swarajathi in Bilahari).Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/20/stories/2006012003051000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/20/images/2006012003051001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAWESOME ENSEMBLE: Ghatam Karthick's troupe.
p14
ss.