(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConnoisseur's delight
p3
sVnews
p4
VMuthuswami Dikshitar, amongst the trinity, is the only vaggeyakara who has authored kritis as ragamalikas. Many of the post trinity composers resorted to composing various forms in ragamalikas which include varnams, kritis, javalis and tillanas. The current trend seems to be the rendering of ragam, tanam and pallavi set as ragamalikas, though earlier stalwarts such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar had also sung ragamalika pallavis.In this album, Sudha Ragunathan offers nine ragamalika compositions of Purandaradasa, Subramania Bharati, Udumalaipettai Narayana Kavi, Kannan Iyengar, Vishvanathan and Arunagirinathar. The first song is on Lord Kumbeshwara enshrined in the temple at Kumbakonam.Sudha's voice displays excellent clarity in the swarasthanas while negotiating speedy taan like phrases covering ragas Khamas, Thodi, Sunadavinodini and Sankarabharanam. The nadai variation in the composition is expertly handled by the singer.&#8216;Sonnadaicheidida' which was popularised by G.N. Balasubramanian and later by his disciple M.L. Vasanthakumari is the second song in the fare offered. Sudha is at her best in the stanza which is set to raga Maand. Maand is a very tricky raga and one needs a thorough understanding of how to negotiate phrases especially while resorting to manodharma singing. The vocalist comes out with flying colours.Meaningful phrasesA moving Ugabhoga in Subhapantuvarali commencing with the lyrics &#8216;Ninantha Swami' brings out the full sahitya bhava, where the composer (Purandaradasa) addresses Lord Vishnu to state that the Lord's consort, Lakshmi, is his mother and enquires of the Lord as to who his mother is. The divinity of the lyrics is done full justice to in the vocalisation. &#8216;Yake Nirdaya' follows which has violinist Embar Kannan playing meaningful phrases of Valachi and Bhimplas post the Subhapantuvarali stanza.Subramania Bharati's composition 'Payum Oli' is well rendered covering Khamas, Kalyanavasantam, Amritavarshini and Sindhubhairavi. The song has been admirably tuned by Charumathi Ramachandran. A pasuram of Tirupannazhwar in Hamsanandi leads on to 'Kannanai Kanbadeppo.' The melodies which find a place in this song are Hamsanandi, Nattakurinji, Suddhadhanyasi and Abhogi.Sudha also vocalises a popular film song rendered by her guru MLV in the movie &#8216;Raja Desingu.' The lyricist Udumalaipettai Narayana Kavi has in simple Thamizh described the 10 avatars of Vishnu. The singer has made some modifications to MLV's version so as to not deviate from the raga lakshana. This is noticeable in the Kedaragowla and Bilahari portions of the song.Annamacharya's 'Enthramathramuna' is a two raga sankirtana in Brindavani and Mayamalavagowla. This is close to M.S. Subbulakshmi's version with certain additional frills.A couple of Thamizh compositions, 'Maalaivarum' (Varali, Brindavani, Chenjuruti and Sindhubhairavi) and 'Athala Shedanarada' (Kalyani, Anandabhairavi, Sama and Surutti) are the closing numbers. There is a school of thought which prescribes to the view that Tiruppughazh should always be concluded with the verse where the composer requests Lord Muruga to either protect him or come to his rescue. Sudha has followed this tradition and winds up the Tiruppugazh by singing the second stanza 'Madura Vani' in Surutti after the fourth stanza ' Udhadhi Meedhilae Saayum.' The percussionists Patri Satish Kumar and Neyveli Skandasubramanian (mridangam ) and R. Raman (morsing) have supported the singer well.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/02/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/02/05/stories/2010020551291100.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/02/05/images/2010020551291101.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRich fare:Sudha Ragunathan.
p14
ss.