(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMeditation through concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULThe one-hour sitar recital at `Naalukettu' in Cherpu, near Thrissur,  was a demonstration of what Indian classical music needs in terms of ambience for its recital and appreciation. Neither was there the glare of electric lamps nor blaring loudspeakers as Pulak Lahiri (sitar) and Dinesh Shenai (tabla) settled down to give their performance in  the naalukettu of the centuries-oldmana.The dim light shed by two traditional lamps lent an aura of serenity to the ambience. There was hardly a whisper from the audience that had gathered for the performance. Incidentally, `Naalukettu,' the centuries-oldmanain the sleepy hamlet has evolved into a venue for select cultural programmes over the past two years.Fan of KeralaFor Prem Manasvi, the German citizen who is the owner and occupant of themanafor the last 10 years, the fascination for Kerala culture is unparalleled.A regular witness to cultural events in and around Thrissur, Manasvi's style of living bears ample testimony to his desire to promote the performing arts of Kerala. He came to India in 1991 for the first time as a visitor to Osho's Commune in Pune. Manasvi explained that his tryst with Kerala was quite accidental."I had never heard about this place on earth. I came here on an invitation and fell in love with the land, and settled down in an oldmanawith a lot of nature around and started becoming a part of this country full of contradictions," he says.Pulak Lahiri opened the concert with a vibrantalapanaof Yaman, the much sought-after evening raga.His style was typical of the Rampur-Sahaswan Gharana that laid much stress on the Gayaki Ang.The notes, most of them prolonged by skilful technique, evoked the mood of the raga.He also rendered Puriya Dhanasi and essayed Bhairavi. Embellishments employed in Bhairavi, the equivalent of Sindhubhairavi in Carnatic music, were more enjoyable. Shenai's support on the tabla was in the right measure.Noted harmonium exponent Nalin Moolji's short explanations of each raga and the nuances of Hindustani music were befitting the occasion.The concert marked the denouement of the three-day Osho meditation camp at themana. Further, it proved how music itself was a form of meditation. Also it reminded one of the `chamber concerts' of yore that were genuine expositions of classical music.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/07/stories/2005100701180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/10/07/images/2005100701180301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELLIFLUOUS REFLECTIONS: Pulak Lahiri on the sitar and Dinesh Shenai on the tabla.
p14
ss.