(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VLanguage was not a barrier
p3
sVnews
p4
VGARIMELLA SUBRMANIAMIt was one of those days when a cliché didn't sound too inappropriate to describe a performance. Pleasantly, but perhaps not surprisingly, a lack of acquaintance with Kannada was not such a barrier to relish Padma Krishnan's presentation of Purandaradasa's kritis under the aegis of Karthik Fine Arts.I don't mean to play down the significance of language in musical expression, least of all in the classical tradition. The point is rather to emphasise a larger social dimension that underlies music.Purandaradasa's creativity was representative of the common theme of spiritual emancipation that unites the diversity of cultural traditions that flourished across the country during the bhakti movement. This common heritage resonates with the masses unto this day, the apparent difference of language notwithstanding.More than one ragaAn important testimony to the popular appeal of this genre of compositions is the currency of kritis in more than one raga. There was evidence of this from Padma Krishnan's very first piece. She sang Purandaradasa's invocation to ganapati `Gajavadana Beduve,' usually heard in Hamsadhvani in Natta. `Odi Barayya,' in Bhairavi was likewise a change from Mohanam.In fact, I wondered at one point if, through some of the kritis, Purandaradasa anticipated Tyagaraja.When Krishnan sang Purandaradasa's `Ninnenodi Dhanyanadeno,' in Panthuvarali, the resemblance was rather striking to Tyagaraja's `Ninnu Neranamminanura,' in the same ragam. My hesitant query on this point was met with a reassuring response. Krishnan cited a more recent example in Papanasam Sivan's `Ninnarul Iyambalaguma.'The other noteworthy aspect of the evening was the chance to hear kirtanams usually relegated to the tail-end in a full-fledged concert. Having said that, Padma Krishnan could perhaps have used the opportunity to showcase some of the less known pieces of Purandaradasa. `Jagadodharana,' 'Narayana Ninna Namada smaranaya,' `Venkatachalanilayam,' `Bhagyata Lakshmibaramma' and others may not have lost their charm because they are so familiar.Rather, there must be any number of kritis that the Chennai audience may still not be conversant with, as much as their counterparts in Karnataka and Padma seemed quite competent to assume that responsibility.Tiruvarur N Balam, who was felicitated earlier in the evening, on the violin and Saikrishnan on the mridangam accompanied the artiste.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033102790500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033102790501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSOAKED IN BHAKTI: Padma Krishnan rendering Purandaradasa kritis.  Photo: R. Shivaji Rao.
p14
ss.