(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDisplay of virtuosity
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe Parur style of bowing and fingering is reflected to great degree in the violin playing of the talented brothers from Mysore, Nagaraj and Manjunath. They have been in the concert arena for quite a few decades and enjoy popularity amongst the rasikas.The CD under review is a recording of a live concert in Australia. Maestro Umayalpuram Sivaraman has provided percussive accompaniment on the mridangam, which enthuses the siblings to give their best.The disc commences with the oft heard but brisk varnam of Moolaiveetu Rangaswami nattuvanar in Natakurinji (&#8216;Chalamela') which is offered in two speeds. Next is &#8216;Vande Ni Samaham' (Hamsadhwani, Mysore Vasudevachar ) which offers obeisance to Ganesha. The short alapana which precedes the kriti and the briga-oriented sangatis which adorn the pallavi, display the virtuosity of the violinists. The faster paced sangatis are no doubt exciting but may not be suitable for vocalisation.Seasoned playerAmruthavarshini is a pleasing melody and the brothers provide a breezy picture of the raga followed by &#8216;Sudamayi' of Muthiah Bhagavathar in rupaka tala. The kuraippu and the korvai are flawlessly rendered though there is a bit of exaggerated playing during the korvai which results in a bit of harshness. The weighty portrayal of Bhairavi raga offers sedate listening pleasure. The time-tested sancharas and pidis coupled with the manodharma of the duo provide undiluted classical fare.Sivaraman's thani takes one on a journey to the world of rhythmic beauty. The opening of the thani with a single sollu covering more than one avarthanam is gripping and prepares the rasika for the rest of the percussive session. The &#8216;kitathaka tharikitathom' sollu in mel kalam is mesmerising and offers a good contrast to the gumkis that follow. The closing numbers are the overworked &#8216;Enna thavam' (Kapi- Papanasam Sivan) and the Dhanasri thillana of Swati Tirunal which are professionally rendered.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/09/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/09/24/stories/2010092451240400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.