(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOf scintillating grandeur
p3
sVnews
p4
VVisakha Music Academy's this month's schedule featured ensemble music titled Sruthi Laya Ranjani. It was a knowledgeable theme aesthetically conceived by the reputed mridanga vidwanmani Sumathi Rama Mohana Rao Dandamudi of Vijayawada.Seated in the centre, she eruditely guided the entire show and led the laya part playing on mridangam herself with élan and alacrity.Artistes from Vijayawada, V. Krishnaveni (violin), M. Haribabu (dolu), M. Anantha Krishna (flute), P.V. Ramana Murty (ghatam), G. Satya Sai from Hyderabad and K. Chaitanya Ramesh (kanjira) of Rajahmundry constituted the team.The thoughtfully chosen repertoire in the main, comprisedBhairavi Atathala varnam- Viriboni,Dikshitar'sMahaganapathe(Gowla), expansive expatiation ofNinuvinaof Tyagaraja (Navarasa kannada) andragam taanam pallavi(Sri Sadguru Sayi Mahima Kalimi Balimi Kaliginchu) composed inVasanthainChaturasra triputaby the leader of the team Sumathi.Over all, the programme was not without discernible difference from that of a routine recital. Having as many as five rhythm instruments, the dolu in particular was not the only departure.There seemed to be a paraphrastic analysis of the emotional content in the lyrical and musical phraseology including thelayabhavamcontained in the composition earlier before presenting it on the stage.Commensurable comboDepending on the subtle differences in the intrinsic expression contained in different phrases, the rhythm instruments were used selectively either single or in commensurable combination. Thethaniwas executed as usual but as per a pre-conceived plan individually.Together they traversed intricategathibhedhamblended withsrothovahayathiandgoputchayathipatterns. No wonder, it struck high notes of scintillating grandeur.Similar rendering of aTarangam(Madhava Mamava Deva) inNeelambari, Annamacharya'sTandanana HareinBouliand theBrindavani Tillanaof Balamurali constituted the lilting tailpiece.A.R.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/09/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/09/02/stories/2005090202250200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.