(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe voice to enthral
p3
sVnews
p4
VIt was a packed house at New Delhi's India International Centre auditorium, where Victoria Hanna was giving a vocal performance titled, `The Voice of My Beloved Knocking'. Victoria Hanna is said to be one of the rare creators in the area of vocal performance in Israel. She teamed up with Yarden Erez, who played keyboards and accordion.The evening started with a welcome address by the Ambassador of Israel in India. "This is Victoria's second performance in India, and we are looking forward to more such occasions," said the Ambassador, after which the lights dimmed, and Victoria emerged in a white dress, singing a Persian lullaby, her voice, soothing, clear and sweet. She went on to The Song of Songs  -   "I Sleep", which she translated as she sang."I sleep, and my heart is awake, the voice of my beloved knocking... " It was Hebrew poetry and ancient text, set in original music composition. The experience was divine. It is her voice that knocks you out entirelyto submerge you in a completely new place.She went on to sing "My Dove", and Ancient Jewish prayers for the Holy Day of Atonement and the New Year. Victoria compellingly fused sacred and contemporary heritage into a total theatre experience, and brought to the audience, music of the spiritual and eternal city of Jerusalem. She sang with confidence, with only an accompanying keyboard, and no drum for beat. Her notes came from her heart, as she sang giving a memorable evening to all in the auditorium.Most engrossingHer Asher Yatzar (a traditional Jewish prayer gracing God for our basic body functions) was most engrossing. The words were as beautiful, as was the melody."Blessed are you God, who formed me with wisdom, hollows and openings. If one of them were ruptured or blocked, I could not stand before You even for one moment. Blessed are you who heads the flesh and performs wonders."Victoria was born into a spiritual and religious community in Jerusalem, where the language and elocution of prayer are valued above all other arts. Much of the inspiration for the current work comes from Jerusalem, where the overlapping of the past and present, ancient and modern is at its very close.The fresh interpretations of original and ancient Jewish songs and texts, provided an intimate evening, which was emotionally fiery, subtle and lyrical.VIVEK AHUJABottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/29/stories/2006092902100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/29/images/2006092902100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTRADITION CALLS Victoria Hanna performing in New Delhi.
p14
ss.