(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMarked with devotion
p3
sVnews
p4
VRefined tonal melody and involvement marked the vocal concert of Girija Rajkumar from Shimoga at the Sri Krishna Ganasabha, Gokulam, Mysore. The achievement of the artiste, trained under renowned gurus, was appreciable. However, reference to the script during rendition reflected the need of prior preparation which would have helped her to embark on a more creative svarakalpana and ragabhava. Clarity of sanchari stayies and sahitya in the lower octave, could make the concert more effective. Brief alapana of raga Kamavardhini (also known as Ramakriya in Dixitar's school), "Sarasaksha Paripalaya" of Swathi Tirunal Maharaj and neraval in charana sahitya was impressive.Selections of raga Bilahari (Sri Madurapuri Nivasini of Dixitar in rupaka-tala), "Ragaratna Malikathe" of Sri Tyagaraja in raga Ritigoula, "Parakela Saraswathi" of Tirupathi Narayana Swamigal in raga Natakuranji and "Ramachandram Bhavayami" of Dikshitar in raga Vasantha were some of the delectable compositions rendered by the artiste, with involvement and devotion. Beginning from varnam in Begade, Girija Rajkumar concluded the concert with a tillana in Brindavana saranga composed by Balamuralikrishna and "Karedu biksheya" of Purandara Dasa in Saramathi.Kumari Sindhu on violin and P.S. Sridhar on mridangam added grace to the concert.First anniversaryPerformance of Prof. T.S. Rama from Bangalore at Nayanakala Mantapa during the first anniversary of Nadamandira kept the traditional approach alive. Beginning with a varnam in raga Valachi, the artiste gave a traditional touch to the concert. Notable compositions like "Deva-deva kalayami" in Mayamalavagoula, Vadiraja's "Sarideno Ninna" in Yadukula Kambhoji and the concluding mangala sloka "Kalyanadbutha Gatraya" tuned in inspiring ragas like Hindolam, Begada, and Sindhubhairavi followed by Purandaradasa's "Kelano Hari Talano" in raga Surati was an appreciable finale.Vidwan H.L. Shivashankar's rhythmical eloquence in sanchari-nadai on mridanga during the concert and tani was sprightly, while Vidhushi Veena Suresh on violin added melody to the ragabhava.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/02/stories/2006060202700300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.