(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTalent spreads its wings
p3
sVnews
p4
VIf the concert of K. Gayathri for Sri Krishna Gana Sabha was excellent it was not certainly through mere manipulative sophistry. She provided sheer pleasure through her ability to reflect on music's mellowed gracefulness. It was not a single factor but a combination of voice, talent, strict adherence to classicism and her guru's guidance that spelt success. Her felicitous style gave primacy to aesthetic passion.Consistency and control in phrasings, pace in the tara stayi, fine tonal balance in gana-naya and good discernment of the depth of sahityas constituted her articulation objective. There was compulsive sweetness in showcasing the beauty of ragas and kirtanas. In this respect Gayathri's varied gifts, gaining from the gradual touch of maturity in recent times, deserved notice. She has tactical, cultured sense backed by disciplined training and sadhaka to nourish her natural musical instincts.The peak of her recital was Sankarabaranam. Her elaboration suggested she was quite conversant with its characteristic nuances.Showcasing grandeurThe expositional competence stemmed from the compositional design covered by throbbing sancharas. Karvais, a blend of madhyamakala and speedy shades of the raga, punctuated with proper spacing would have served its grandeur better. In the delineation of the raga's image, manodharma and exposition moved hand-in-hand.The kirtana was, &#8216;Manasu Swaadina,' which was welcome. The ensemble of the alapana, rendering standard of the kriti, and the niraval gave enough scope for her talent to spread its wings. It was energetic but not hackneyed.Earlier Gayathri handled the alapana of Dhanyasi (&#8216;Syama Sundaranga') with great intensity. Arresting in artistic form and pointedly focused on the essential identity that goes with Dhanyasi it called for rasika attention. Even at the start of the recital her voice was endearingly open to polished, pleasing charm. This helped her settle comfortably to direct the rest of the programme on elegant lines. The other item she savoured was &#8216;Sri Ranga Nayakam,' in Nayaki, where one could sense she was quite at ease in interpreting the vilambakala song.R. Hemalatha (violin) conveyed her years of accompanying experience in the way she lent lyrical base to ragas in her solo session.The tani by a mridangam player seeks to portray his laya vidwat.But his real value has to be recognised by his expertise in uplifting the tala-base of a kirtana as rendered by the main artist. His role for the most part of the concert was centred on this aspect. Delhi Sairam with help on the ghatam from H. Prasanna rose up meaningfully to this demand.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/08/20
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/08/20/stories/2010082051210200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/08/20/images/2010082051210201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIn complete control: K.Gayathri.
p14
ss.