(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VYoung musicians impress
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVI`Alapana' presented  `Young faces of Carnatic music' recently, featuring Swarna Rethas and Thrissur Brothers at GKD Auditorium, Coimbatore. The competent youngsters performed admirably.Swarna Rethas, a disciple of Sanjay Subramaniam, was quite at ease and began with the sparkling varnam by Calcutta Krishnamurthy, "Sharanagatha Vatsale, Shankari.""Apparamabhakti'' (Pantuvarali) by Tyagaraja had the expected appeal.   Papanasam Sivan's "Kamala Padha Malarinai Maravaathe Nenjey'' in Harikamboji delighted the audience.Swarna Rethas exuded confidence during alapana, neraval and swaraprastharas. S. Karthik on the violin and R. Sankaranarayanan on the mridangam were skilful and supportive.Pleasing presenceThrissur Brothers Krishna Mohan and Ramkumar Mohan stole the show with their choice of ragas and kritis, mode of presentation, pleasing stage presence,  and a  mastery over `raga laya bhava'. After the varnam, "Chalamela,'' they plunged into "Srivignarajam Bhaje'' in Gambira Nattai (Oothukkaadu Venkatasubbaiyer). "Paavana Guru Pavana Puraadheesham'' in Hamsanandi followed smoothly.Dikshitar's "Sri Kaalahastheesa'' in Huseni was a treat. Later, the brothers presented Abhogi elaborately,  displaying excellent imagination and followed it up with the favourite kriti, "Sabaapathikku Veru Deivam'' by Gopalakrishna Bharati. "Raghuvamsa Sudhambudhi Chandra'' and "Nannu Vidachi Kadhalakura'' were the other kritis they presented. "Ekambresha Nayakeem''  by Dikshitar was impressive with all the components of the main item in place. However, one felt the raga delineation could be tightened up a bit to make it more enjoyable."Krishna Nee Begane Baaro'' and "Pibare Ramarasam'' (presented after the sloka, "Vaame Bhumi Sutha'') were appealing. Thrissur Brothers certainly made a favourable impact on the audience and those who came to encourage young musicians went back pleased with their mature performance. They were accompanied on the violin by Palakkad Swaminathan, and on the mridangam by their father Thrissur R. Mohan.Being experts in their chosen fields, the accompanying artistes won frequent applause from the audience.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042800130300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/28/images/2006042800130302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VThrissur Brothers.
p14
ss.