(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical interludes
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe fragrance of the Jaipur Atrauli gayaki  continues to waft through the garden of Indian classical music. Many have inculcated the magic of Ustad Alladiya Khan but there are some who try to recapitulate the beauty of this  tradition after Pandit Mallikarjun Mansur, Ashwini Bhide and Shruti Sadolikar. The new arrival is Shubhada Marathe.She was invited to Varanasi to perform at a  concert organised by Aavartan, a new organisation created by talented local  artistes. Aavartan is dedicated to immortalising the contribution of two great artistes of the Banaras gharana: the great tabla maestro Pandit Anokhelal Mishra and Thumri queen Siddheshwari Devi.The great stalwarts of the Banaras tradition have been forgotten, feel Aavartan members Sucharita Gupta, a vocalist, and Lalit Kumar, a tabla player.  .This particular evening was also dedicated to another tabla maestro of the gharana, Pandit Ramji Mishra. The concert began with a solo tabla performance by his disciple Kishan Ramdohkar.  It was a representation of Anokhelal Mishra&#8217;s Banaras baaj. Ramdohkar began with uthaan, a typical Banaras pattern and style of this baaj, in Teen tala, followed by peshkar, qayada, gat, rela, etc.  Kishan&#8217;s fingers on the tabla  expressed the purity of the bols.  There was no dry virtuosity emanating from the intellect rather than the heart to disturb the musical flow of the rhythm. He summed up his effective recital with a number of tukdas and other nuances of the Banaras style.The next performance was a vocal recital by Shubhada.  Though the Indore-based singer is a  disciple of Kumudini Katdare of the Jaipur gharana, she has honed her talent under the guidance of many other teachers like Padmavati Shaligram Gokhle of the same gharana and Sajjanlal Bhatt of the Gwalior gharana. &#8220;But I now consider myself a part of Jaipur gayaki after passing through several teachers,&#8221; said Shubhada.She opened her recital with raga Bageshri, singing a lesser known bandish. The raga evolved in an unusual manner by using Mandra Dhaivat, but the flavour of Jaipur was  discernible from the opening  note.  She explored the essential nature or &#8216;swaroop&#8217; of the raga, dwelling on the main swaras Komal Gandhar and Komal Nishad. She could not avoid the combination of Sa and Ma, for she tried to establish the glory of this evening raga within the fewest notes with a Jaipur touch.Then she presented Dadra to a mesmerised audience. It was a presentation of the Jaipur pattern of this special form of music for a city famed for its own style of Thumri and Dadra. Shubhada finished her recital with the famous bhajan &#8220;Chalo Man Ganga Jamuna Teer&#8221;. She was accompanied by Lalit Kumar on the tabla and Farukh Lateef Khan on the sarangi.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/01/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/01/23/stories/2009012350100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.