(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAn equal music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe six-day music and dance festival organised by Visakha Music Academy to mark its 39th anniversary was inaugurated by K. Sivanandamurty at Kalabharathi last Saturday evening. The president of the academy, former A.U. professor and Founder Director of Centre for Policy Studies, A. Prasannakumar, presented the welcome address, and secretary M.S. Srinivas presented the annual report.Noted vocalists Priya Sisters (Shanmukhapriya and Haripriya) were felicitated and honoured with the presentation of M.S. Subbulakshmi award. Later, they rendered an engaging recital in the company of M.A. Krishnaswamy on violin, Neyvelli Skanda Subrahmanyam on mridangam and B.S. Purushottaman on kanjeera.While rendering of rare compositions likeKarimukhavarada(Nata) with Kalpanotsavam,Ramabhi Rama(Dhanyasi),Ardhanaareeswaram(Kumudapriya) with aalapana and swaram andPalukavademira(Devamanohari) marked the recital, expansive expatiation ofPrakkalanilabadi(Kharaharapriya) was the highlight of the evening. While Krishnaswamy, in his following and turns, did an excellent job on violin, Subrahmanyam and Purushottaman lending support and executing a scintillating thani lent grandeur.The recital by vocal maestro T.M. Krishna from Chennai in the scholarly company of sweet-tempered Peri Srirama Murty (Hyderabad) on violin, Mahadevu L.N. Raju on mridangam and B.S. Purushottaman on kanjeera next day evening was appealing to the intellect and .Getting off to a spirited start with a varnam appended with swaram in the two tempos, he rendered rare compositionsKarunayela(Varali) concluded with neravu,Venugaanalolunugana(Kedaragoula) with a prelude of elaborate aalapana,Baalakrishnam Bhavayami(Gopikavasantham &#8212; Janjyam of Natabhairavi), expansive expatiation of rare composition of Maharaja Yettendra &#8212;Gajavadana Sammohitha(Todi), ragam tanam and pallavi (Mayamalavagoula) in Trisra-Triputa with swaram in Ragamalika comprisedSankarabharanam,DhanyasiandBehag, a composition inKuntalavarali, slokam in ragamalika &#8212; Sahana, Ameerkalyani, Sama and Sindhubhairavi followed by a bhajan in the same raga and a thillana in Khamas.The recital was marked with modulation of the lyrical and musical phraseology of the compositions. Srirama Murty on violin, Raju on mridangam and Purushottaman on kanjeera (executing Thani first after the item in Todi and again after RTP) were scholarly and sublime.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/12/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/12/05/stories/2008120550140200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/12/05/images/2008120550140202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPriya sisters.
p14
ss.