(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRare details brought to light
p3
sVnews
p4
VKRIPA SUBRAHMANIAMRare kritis of Tyagaraja were heard as P.S.Narayanaswami presented his lecture-demonstration. His disciples (girls) gave a sumptuous fare that included `Raghunandana' in raga Suddha Desi, a Natabhairavi janya.  They rendered `Maati Maatiki' in Mohanam, and `Etladorikitivo' in Vasantha. A kriti in Devagandhari, `Evarimanaku,' (Adi) that features in `Nauka Charitram,' was taken up. Narayanaswami said that he learnt rare kritis from Maruthuvakudi Rajagopala Iyer, T. M. Thyagarajan, A.Sundaresan, Suguna Purushothaman, Chingleput Ranganathan, and Mani Krishnaswamy. He thanked S.R.Janakiraman for giving him valuable information.Later his sishyas rendered kritis `Nijamuka Nee' in Sahana, `Palamu Kulamu' in Saveri, Adi tala tisra nadai, `Vatsunu Hari' in Kalyani, Adi tala, `Neeku Danaku' in Begada, Misra Chapu, and `Charanu Charanu' in Madhyamavathi.  Amritha Murali and K. Sankaranarayanan accompanied on the violin and the mridangam. Janakiraman and  Chingleput Ranganathan felicitated Narayanaswami.A word of praiseThe subject presented by Chingleput Ranganathan, principal of the Teacher's College of Music, was Meesu Krishna Iyer (1872-1940). Meesu Krishna Iyer was born in Kallal in Ramnad district. "Meesu was the family name given to them and his Mudhra in the songs was `Meesu Krishna,'" Ranganathan said. He has composed songs on Sadasiva Brahmendral, Lord Muruga, Siva and Ambal. All his songs were given to his close friend, Alathur Venkatesa Iyer, to be tuned. His songs `Dhayapayonidhe' in Jaganmohini and `Parama Pavana' in Ranjani, both incidentally on Sadasiva Brahmendral, are famous kirtanas sung in concerts.Ranganathan's disciples, Vidya Ganesan and Shruti Subramaniam, rendered the songs accompanied by Ananthakrishnan on the violin and T. Ramana on the mridangam. The demonstration commenced with the kriti, `Bhaja Gaja Vadanam' in Naattai. Later the group rendered `Sri Sacchidananda Kandham' in Raga Vachaspathi in Khanda Chapu. This kriti is on Tyagaraja. Alathur Venkatesa Iyer used to conduct Tyagaraja Aradhana at Tiruchi where he took up this Vachaspathi kriti after `Sri Ganapathini' out of his immense devotion towards the saint poet. `Guruleka' followed next in the order. `Sri Rukmini Sriyam Dehi' in Manirangu was sung.The Reetigowla song `Brahmanandhamae' had all the charanams set in Madhyama Kalam. `Karuna Rasa Jaladhe,' (Abhogi, Adi) had a chittaswaram for eight avartanams of the tala. Sri Pudukottai Dakshinamurthy Pillai used to request for this song to be sung in all the concerts of Venkatesa Iyer and he obliged happily, it was said. The kriti `Sri Nandikeshwaram' describing Lord Siva, set to Khanda Chapu in Khambodi was sung.S.R.Janakiraman gave his remarks about the presentation. Seshagopalan described Meesu Krishna Iyer as the forerunner of Namasankeertanam. He commended Ranganathan's expertise in talam and said he was an `Uthhama Guru.' He also praised the singers who presented the songs admirably well.Earnest appealS.A.K.Durga presented a lecture on the compositions of Kshetragna,  a 17th century composer.  His mudra was `Muvvagopala,' which appeared in any section of the padam.His padams have rich musical content besides their lyrical beauty with madura bhakti. This madura bhakti is based on the ultimate oneness of man with God &#151;  total surrender.The late Subbarama Dikshitar refers to Kshetragna's life in Sangeetha Sampradaya Pradarshini.  His padams are full of raga and rasa bhava. The padams are exquisite pieces that were born out of the creative imagination of the sahitya and sangita suitable for dance and music. They are found in the nayaka/nayaki bhava.  Modulation and  continuity of the voice, and breath control are essential to render Kshetragna's compositions.`Payyada' in Nadanamakriya in tisra triputa was sung by Durga for demonstration. Set in vilamba kaalam, the melodic progression comes in parts and the grief is expressed in the last line.  Durga appealed to vidwans to sing and youngsters to learn Kshetragna's padams to keep sampradaya alive.B. M. Sundaram, R.Vedavalli, and Ravikiran offered their felicitations for the presentation.In his observation, Seshagopalan said the padam captured the longing of the Jeevatma (Nayaki) for the Paramatma (Nayaka).Sonorous voicePapanasam Sivan was an era by himself, observed Sulochana Pattabhiraman in her presentation on the composer. Tracing his life, she explained how Ramaswamy (Sivan's original name) learnt Sanskrit and music.  He participated in Neelakanta Sivan's bhajan sessions from a young age. In 1917, he went on a padayatra and all his bhaktas called him Papanasam Sivan. He had a sonorous voice and participated in many festivals. His bhajan procession round the Mada streets of Chennai, in the month of Margazhi drew great attention. Sivan was influenced by the music of Konerirajapuram Vaidyanatha Iyer. He composed many tana varnams, pada varnams, kritis in Tamil and Sanskrit, tillana, ragamalika and chindus such as Nondi Chindu.He published a Sanskrit-Tamil dictionary. Because of the influence of Harikatha, he composed Ramayana in 24 ragas. His works include an opera on Karaikal Ammaiyar. S. Rajam Iyer, S. Balachander and Sethalapathi  Balasubramaniam are among his famous sishyas. His descendants Neela Ramamurthy, Rukmini Ramani, and Ashok Ramani are nurturing Sivan's compositions.Sulochana Pattabhiraman's students Prema Rangarajan, Bhagyalakshmi Suresh, Revathi and Ragini Sri sang the compositions. They were accompanied by Lakshmi Venkataramani on the violin and Delhi Sri Sairam on the mridangam. Revathi gave a dance demo in the Nattakurinji pada varnam of Sivan.A revolution in cinema music was brought forth by Sivan, the paper said. `Maname Kanamum' and `Giridhara Gopala' sung by M. S. Subbulakshmi were cited as examples.Most of Sivan's kritis bear his signature `Rama Dasa.' He was conferred Sangeeta Kalanidhi by the Music Academy, in 1971. Tamizh Isai Sangam honoured him with the title Isai Perarignar. He became a fellow of Sangeet Natak Academy. Padma Bhushan was conferred on him. At the age of 73, he passed away.Bhakti-soaked worksNeelakanta Sivan, a noteworthy composer of the post-Trinity period was the subject tackled by V. Subrahmaniam.Neelakanta Sivan was born in 1839 after his parents prayed to Neelakanthaswami and Anandavalli and they named him Subrahmanya.Even at a young age, Subrahmanya had absorbed the musical, devotional, and spiritual aspects of Tamil literary works such as `Thevaram,' `Thiruvachagam,' padams of Muthu Thandavar, and the kirtanas of Ramanataka.Subrahmanya got the name Neelakanta Sivan after his divine vision of Neelakanthaswami. He then composed `ThiruNeelakantha Dasakam' comprising 10 stanzas, followed by a dasakam on Uma Devi. Neelakanta Sivan's Mudra was `Neelakantha.' Subrahmaniam mentioned that Sivan chose Hamirkalyani, an adapted Hindustani raga, for his first musical composition, `Sivanai Ninai Maname.'Sivan's bhakti-soaked literary compositions include viruttams, chindu, kanni and pathikam to name a few. Though an ardent Siva bhakta, he has also composed on other deities such as Lord Padmanabha of Trivandrum, Subramania, Devi, and Sathyavageeswara and Gomathi Amman of Karamana.V.Subrahmaniam's students presented `Sambho Mahadeva' in Rupaka Tala and `Ananda Natamaduvar' in Rupaka tala.Subrahmaniam mentioned that Sivan has created an exceptional ragamalika piece in the following ragas with their names figuring in the respective parts: Nattai, Varali, Sri, Bhairavi, Kalyani, Arabhi, Saindavi, Thodi, Paras, Mohanam, Saveri, Khamas, Sankarabharanam, Suratti, Dhanyasi, Atana, and Madhyamavati.Subrahmaniam's students presented `Sivanandam Brahmanandam,' in Reetigowla raga, Adi tala, a kriti in which Sivan explains the nature of real bliss.V.Neelakanta Sivan was a `mumukshu'  -   a person desiring Moksha or Salvation, and was deeply rooted in Advaitic philosophy.He could predict his end. In 1900, on a Monday (Pradosham day) he uttered the word `Mahadeva' thrice and shed his mortal coil.Papanasam Sivan was Neelakanta Sivan's foremost disciple. It is believed that Sivan composed  1,000 songs but only about 100 are available.Prof.R.Srinivasan, Principal of the Maharaja's College of Science and M. A. Saradambal, great granddaughter of Neelakanta Sivan made  efforts to publish his works.At the end of the demonstration, Subrahmaniam's students, Bhavana Vishwanathan and Saraswathy Ramachandran, sang the kriti `Yendraikku Siva Krupai' in Mukhari raga, Chapu tala, and the concluding piece, `Navasiddhi Petralum' in Kharaharapriya, Chapu tala was sung by Subrahmaniam and Bhavana. They were accompanied by Sikkil Bhaskaran on the violin and  Mannarkoil J.Balaji on the mridangam.Seshagopalan gave the additional information that  during the period of Neelakanta Sivan, Vallalaar was also present.He endorsed the view that there was no Bheda of Sreesa and Eesa for Neelakanta Sivan.The month of Margazhi is special for both Siva and Vishnu. A hybrid language of Tamil and Malayalam is found in his kritis, he said.  He wanted the kritis of Sivan to be brought to light.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202150800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/12/images/2007011202150805.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VChingleput Ranganathan.
p14
ss.