(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFlying fingers, grounded realities
p3
sVnews
p4
VANJANA RAJANHe was all of 14 when he accompanied ghazal maestro Pankaj Udhas on stage. Earlier, at 10, he played his first major programme, one-and-a-half-hour tabla solo at a festival in Agra.Arshad Khan tries to remember the name of the festival, but it proves too much of an effort. After all, so many performances have gone by since then, he smiles apologetically.This amiable young tabla exponent is certainly not haughty in his forgetfulness.A grandson of the great tabla ustad, Padma Bhushan Ahmed Jaan Thirakwa, he grew surrounded by music. "I started learning to play the tabla when I was four from my mama (maternal uncle), Ustad Rashid Mustafa Thirakwa. He was my inspiration, and I travelled with him on performance tours."Growing up in Delhi, attending Bal Bhawan Public School and doing rigorous riyaaz did not prove contradictory for him."I saw the love and respect in which everyone held my nana (maternal grandfather) and uncle. I wanted to grow up to be like them. I did like school, but I loved music more. I always wanted to make my name in this field."Arshad was often touring with his uncle. It meant missing classes. "The Principal and the teachers loved me so much because of my tabla, so they always allowed me to take leave. In fact I got a lot of awards in school events too. If ever there was an attendance problem, they took care of it," he grins.Arshad, who has accompanied Hindustani music stalwarts like Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma, Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and others, has also played for eminent Kathak dancers like Gitanjali Lal, Jaikishan Maharaj, Rani Khanam.In the ghazal field, all the big names are part of his CV: Ghulam Ali, Hariharan, Chandan Das among them.Having already winged his way round the world, Arshad keeps his feet on the ground."I want to move ahead in my art, I want to be the kind of true artiste my forebears were. In the old days there was no media as such, to get publicity. The connoisseurs of music were the ones to spread an artiste's reputation. That is how I want to be known too... by the quality of my work."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033101560200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/31/images/2006033101560201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMAKING HIS MARK Arshad Khan in New Delhi.
p14
ss.