(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical values take precedence
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANM.S.Lavanya and M.S.Subbulakshmi form a gutsy duo. Their choice of instrument is as singular as their decision to take bold strides into the almost exclusively male preserve of saxophonists.To adapt an instrument synonymous with the sultry languid landscape of jazz and blues to the intricate vocabulary of the Carnatic idiom poses a challenge that calls for tremendous lung power and  mastery over technique in addition to an overriding passion and untiring effort.Enthusiastic recitalThe sisters have succeeded wonderfully well as was evident in their enthusiastically received recital at Vani Mahal, under the auspices of the Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha.The number of items was limited, allowing the artistes to lay emphasis on alapana and aragam-tanam-pallavi. A noteworthy feature was that at no point was the dignity of the music compromised by resorting to gimmicks.With `Pranamamyaham' (Gowlai) affording a brisk start, the next piece was `Janani ninuvina' (Ritigowlai) which radiated serenity through the vilamba kala. One could visualise the amount of sadhana that must have gone into achieving the kind of breath control demonstrated during the handling of this composition. The projection of musical values took precedence over technique.Lavanya's Brindavana Saranga alapana was a graceful exposition, with the plaintive madhyama and panchama notes trailing into a suggestion of yearning.Effective toneThe manner of handling the tara sthayi shadja deserves particular mention. The deliberately muted tone was all the more effective as it emerged from a power consciously leashed instead of unleashed. A series of whizzing briga phrases led to a throbbing rishabha halt. When the panchama was finally touched, what emerged was not a triumphant blast but a flute-like note that again scored full points for subtlety. The krithi, `Kamalapthakula' supported an exuberant wave of swaras.Hamsanandi was an intelligent choice of raga for RTP, the instrument's characteristic cadences being well suited to this scale. The alapana made full use of the scope for smooth glides, the use of vadi-samvadi heightening poignancy. At the tara sthayi rishabha, a clutch of sancharas eschewing the shadja alternating with shadja-inclusive phrases created stunning combinations.The pallavi in Adi tala (2-kalai), a neat trikala exercise, explored intriguing possibilities in kalpanaswara and ragamalika swaras in Suddha Dhanyasi and a Vasanthi redolent with mystique that led to a sensational finale.Excellent support was forthcoming from the violinist, Ananthakrishnan, whose Brindavana Saranga carried a distinct Hindustani flavour. In the Hamsanandi alapana, the Carnatic touch was ascendant.M.R.Sainath on the mridangam and G. Venkatasubramanian on the ghatam were completely in sync with the twists and turns in the main artistes' interpretations and they provided a lively tani.Kudos to the Vani Mahal audio team whose unobtrusive monitoring of the volume and tone at every stage ensured that the sound projection stayed within the aural comfort zone.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202140800.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/12/images/2007011202140801.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMASTERY: Lavanya (right) and Subbulakshmi
p14
ss.