(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VExceptional talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VExcellent is the word that perfectly suits the Master Devulapalli Lakshmi Prachotan. The little one, accompanied by another equally young mridangam player Aravind enthralled the audience with their musical prowess at their brief recital recently. Prachotan displayed amazing mastery over his medium be it Rakshimpave. in Mayamalavagowla or Pamarajana palini. in Simhendramadhyamam. The deftness with which he spinned the swarakalpanas showcased his stupendous creativity (manodharma).He had a controlled tenor which is difficult to find in one so young. And his experiment with rare ragas and compositions are his USP. The Namdev bhajan in raga Kosalam and the western notation (Muthaiah Bhagavatar) left the audience asking for more. He literally took the audience on an ecstatic trip. With a confidence that bordered more on humility and dedication, Prachotan seemed well poised to make it big in the world of music in time to come.Magical fluteB. Vijayagopal's flute recital took off with Jalajaksha. varnam in Hamsadhwani which marked the beginning of the pleasant concert under the aegis of South Indian Cultural Association at Ravindra Bharati. The Nalinakanthi was brimming with melody as the notes flowed along smoothly from the bamboo. The sangathees and swarakalpana were all there diligently displayed with perfect precision. The alapana lifted the Chandrajyoti (Baagaayenayya.) and instilled it with a vigorous swarakalpana. So was the case with Reetigowla in Misra Chapu Janani ninnu vina. another piece full of lyrical beauty. A racy Sarasamukhi. in Gowda Mallar preset the Kalyani that was to follow in its entirety. Ye taavuna ra nilakada neeku. had all the required embellishments like a fairly long alapana, neraval with ample sprinkling of swarakalpana. The recital by and large was flawless but it requires an exceptionality to set the artist apart from the rest of his ilk. And Vijayagopal has the potential to go beyond the run-of-the-mill artistes. Pawan Singh on the violin was at his best, while Kapa Srinivasa Rao on the percussion was average.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/08/27
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/08/27/stories/2010082722220300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/08/27/images/2010082722220302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPrachotan.
p14
ss.