(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA scholarly puritan
p3
sVnews
p4
VSharada Ramakrishna Rao, who gave a vocal concert last week under the auspices of Kalasagaram, is a puritan in the sense she does not mix up popular devices to please the lay audience; the music is pure and uncorrupted. If it has not made an impression as well as it should, it is because of the poor voice culture; necessarily it is a big disadvantage and perhaps it is too late to mend it. The selection again was scholarly and discerning, although in the initial stages, it proved to be a little edgy.As is the case with most women singers, she moves about in the higher octaves, resulting with failure in projecting the spectrum below thepanchamam. In terms ofmanodharma sangitham, the neraval part was lacking, although theswarakalapanawas reasonably good. The concert was obviously premeditated and the entire episode looked highly rehearsed.Savaeri varnamwas the initial item, but it is intriguing why she chose it, as many contemporary artistes resort to change in thenadaifromchtausramtothisram; it is all worth appreciating but not worth listening.Mahaganapathimin Gowla was a routine rendering. It was in the item in Reitigowla,Bale balenduof Thyagaraja that she made the impact. Thekalaprmanamof the item was excellent.Vanajakshni ninein Gambhira natai gave the stamp of scholarship.A rare song in Mohana kalyani was pleasing. The alapana of the Raga Hamsanada was great; it was further adorned by Pavan Singh who played on the violin; the krithis waskalyana ramaof Thyagaraja. Thodi proved to be the main item and the elaborate alapana was impressive.The concert ended up with an item inSindhu bhairavi. Pavan Singh contributed considerably to the concert, but had he stayed longer at notes likeshadjamandpanchamamit would have added much more to thesruticomponent. Vidyasagar on the mridangam has to go a long way to turn out to be professional. The lacuna is that he plays for the thala and not for the krithi; this results in incoherence, holistically.All in all, the concert was convincingly good, at least in parts.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/08/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/08/29/stories/2008082950540300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.