(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA delight for the senses
p3
sVnews
p4
VShowcasing stalwarts and promising artistes of the country, the annual Vedant-Bhubaneswar Music Circle (BMC) festival concluded in  Bhubaneswar. The event was organised by the 45-year-old BMC. London-based corporate giant, Vedant Resources, has been extending major financial support for the past three years.The star performers of the year were Mohan veena exponent Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt and veteran Hindustani vocalist Ustad Rashid Khan. Accompanied by tabla exponent Ram Kumar Mishra and son Salil Bhatt on Satvik veena, Vishwa Mohan kicked off his recital with a rare raga, Madhuranjani, that he has created harmonising two ragas, Shivranjanai and Madhuwanti.Commencing with a wonderfulaalapwith Salil, he later switched over to thevilamvitanddrutmode inteen taal. The hour-long recital was followed by achhota khayal, Neer bharan kaise jaun, set to raga Tilak-Kamod that the inventor of the Mohan veena sang and played simultaneously, apparently to educate the audience about how human emotions are expressed both in vocal and instrumental mode. He mesmerised the audience with his special composition,Meeting by the Sea, that won him the prestigious Grammy Award in 1994.Kolkata-based Ustad Rashid Khan, the great grandson of the founder of the Rampur-Shaswan gharana, the legendary Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan, and disciple of his illustrious grand uncle Ustad Nissar Hussain Khan, who served the Sangeet Research Academy in Kolkata, hooked the audience to their seats for two long hours with his pulsating performance. Gifted with a deep, rich and sonorous voice, the Ustad&#8217;s soulful rendition of raga Purya Kalyan invilamvit ek taalfollowed by raga Bihag set tojhap taalinvilamvitandteen taalinmadhyalayagave glimpses of the great musical tradition. He concluded with rendition of raga Bhairavi on request from the audience.The festival presented some of the promising vocalists and instrumentalists of the state,violinist Kailash Chadra Patra, Hindustani vocalist Bilambita Banisudha and Odissi vocalist Bharati Jena. Now under the tutelage of L. K. Pandit, Kailash has wonderfully imbibed the nuances of the Gwaliorgayaki anginto his art of playing the violin that he demonstrated during his recital.Similarly, Bilambita, disciple of the versatile Shruti Sadolikar, impressed with her neat rendition. Odissi vocalist Bharati, however, disappointed with her loss oflayaon a number of occasions.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/11/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/11/28/stories/2008112850090200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/11/28/images/2008112850090202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VUstad Rashid Khan.
p14
ss.