(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBeen there, done that!
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPThe Central Park in New Delhi's Connaught Place witnessed an unprecedented gathering of men, women and children recently to attend a `been' recital, Hundred Charmers. The snake charmers  seem to be an unhappy lot now, with the Government order forbidding them from keeping snakes in captivity for public performances  and thereby earning a  living. However, this has come as a boon for the snake charmers to develop their been as a wind instrument to give good music rather than to merely make their snakes dance.Choreographed entryTheir entry into the performing area from different directions in several groups, walking single file, playing their instruments with tunefulness in unison at the Central Park was indeed very well choreographed and presented a colourful sight.Equally pleasing was their well-disciplined line-up with most of them in a semi-circle around the performing arena and the rest in front.Their repertoire for the evening was a mixed bag of ragas, folk music and a couple of Scottish melodies. Their rendering in ragas Brindavan Sarang and the Carnatic Saraswati was immaculate and authentic as well. The snake charmers were indeed happy for being twice invited to the Edinburgh Music Festival, at which they were showered with accolades for their performances in Indian classical and folk music and a few Scottish airs, to the utmost delight of the local audience. They were pleased to be well paid by the organisers of the festival too.Song from "Sapera"The most pleasing rendering of the evening by the snake charmer ensemble was the musical sequence from the 1950s film "Sapera".This particular piece of music, based on the song "Man Doley, Mera Tan Doley", was composed by none other than the late shehnai wizard Ustad Bismillah Khan. It was interesting to observe a total absence of shehnai nuances in it, while the snake charmer's been was effectively made use of. The ensemble provided a colourful finale to their performance with a folktune from the Brij region where a fully veiled woman danced to the music and was soon joined by several men folk.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/30/stories/2007033001440200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/30/images/2007033001440201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTHE CHARM THAT'S BEEN Snake charmers performing at the Hundred Charmers festival in New Delhi.
p14
ss.