(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA seasoned voice
p3
sVnews
p4
VVamsee Art Theatres has entered the arena of classical music, by launching a music wing to the overall activities and named it after Ganadheera Puranam Puruthama Sastry. Under its auspices noted vocalist of the younger generation R.V. Panduranga Sarma was featured in a pleasing concert, under the joint auspices of Thyagaraya Ganasabha and Vamsee at Ganasabha's mini auditorium, last week.Mature artisteSarma was accompanied by K.S. Rajan on violin and Srinivasa Gopalan on mridangam. A matured artiste of the younger brigade of Carnatic musicians Panduranga Sarma learned first from Mulukutla Sadasiva Sastry, at Puranam Purushothama Sastry and then under Pattammal. He displayed his musical skills right away in his traditional varnam in Sriragam that he heralded his concert with, adding an exercising swarakalpana and displaying considerable level of exuberance thereby regaling the listeners.The following Santana Gopala Krishnam Upasmahe in Khamas was presented with spirited self assurance and refreshing pace with clarity in diction. This is Muthuswami Deekshitar's kriti. He then gave a brief sketch of Pantuvarali, mapped with spontaneous energetic phrases and rendered in it Sarasaksha Paripalayamam of Swati Tirunal. He also presented nereval and a cascade of swaras. This was his first major item. Then he delineated Anandabhairavi for Himachala Tanaya of Shyama Sastry, a clear kirtana that he rendered with expressive quality. After rendering Kamakshi in Yadukulakambhoji, he took up Madhyamavati for a brief sketch of the raga and rendered Dharma Samvardhane of Deekshitar. Sankarabharanam was his major show piece of the concert. It was presented with extensive use of telling musical phrases showcasing his artistry. It was an elaborate picture of melody too. His soulful rendition of Sarojadala Netri of Shyama Sastry was accompanied by nereval implying the beauty of the sahitya line. The swarakalpana had some curious sequences, adding to the overall picture of deft presentation. The tani avartanam by Srinivas had some rhythmic beauties.The latter part of the concert had an aesthetical mixture of compositions - a Purandara Dasu kirtana Enta Cheluvage in Karnataka Devagandhari and Naraharini Nammaka in Jhenjhuti of Ramadasu, elevating the serenity of the concert. K.S. Rajan gave able support on his violin. Though there was no Thyagaraja composition in the main chunk of the concert, it was found in the final Pavamana Suthudu, a mangalam.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/07/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/07/30/stories/2010073050620300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/07/30/images/2010073050620301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSoulful rendition Panduranga Sarma
p14
ss.