(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith a distinct style
p3
sVnews
p4
VG.S. PAULThe duo has carved a niche for themselves in the world of Carnatic music. Malladi Brothers presented an enthralling concert at Sahitya Akademi Hall, Thrissur.A strict adherence tochittasaw the performance starting with the Sahana Adi tala varnam `Karunimpa,' a popular number by Thiruvettiyur Thyagayya. The rendition highlighted synchronisation ofsrutiand voice modulation,  essential pre-requisites for duets in Carnatic music. The concert reflected their rich and vast experience.In unisonA neat delineation of Arabhi followed. Delectable was the `Nadasudharasam,' a Tyagaraja composition in Rupaka tala. Although they were singing together, both demonstrated their individual style and voice quality.While the phrases woven by Sriram Prasad were intricate, Ravi Kumar relied on simpler ones, which were equally aesthetic. As for the voice, the silky one of the former merged with the more open voice of the latter. `Amba paradevathe' in Rudrapriya by Thirunalveli Krishnaswamy Iyer was short and a harbinger of the heavy ones to follow.A vibrant pictureSoon Ravi Kumar entered into an elaboratealapanaof Poorvikalyani to be taken up in turn by Sriram Prasad. The duo painted a vibrant picture of the raga that appeared complete thanks to the innumerable shades selected. A Swati composition `Deva deva jagaddiswra' in Adi tala was what they selected.The only Dikshitar kriti in the concert was `Santhana Gopalakrishna' (Kamas, Rupaka).The main raga of the evening was Bhairavi, the composition being `Upacharamu jese,' a Tyagaraja composition in Rupaka tala. The raga received an equally elaborate delineation through T.H. Subramaniam's violin.Kuzhalmannam Ramakrishnan's performance was discernible in the commendable style in which he accompanied the renditions and later in the taniavartanam in which young percussionist Vellaattanjur Sreejith (ghatam) joined him. The performance left the audience spellbound. The concert was held under the auspices of Sri Krishna Sweets in tandem with Nadalaya Pravah Academy of Music as part of the fourth anniversary of the former.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/21/stories/2006072100410300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/21/images/2006072100410301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIN SYNC: The Malladi Brothers started their performance with a strict adherence to chitta.
p14
ss.