(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VConcert of high quality and depth
p3
sVnews
p4
VSwarajhari of Vijayawada arranged a concert by Subhashini and her mother  Nirmala Sundara Rajan of Chennai. Subhashini had her initial training under her mother who was trained by T. Muktha, who along with her sister Brinda, specialised in vilambakala (slow tempo) rendering.The mother-daughter duo have imbibed the style of Brinda and Muktha faithfully and their concert was marked by slow tempo but high quality and depth of scholarship. Subhashini has received high accolades and awards from various Sabhas all over the country. The concert took off with a varnam in Kanada and it was followed bySobhillu Saptaswarain Jaganmohini,Dinamanivamsain Harikambhoji andMariverein Latangi in quick succession with alapanas and swaras for some. The Latangi keertana carried detailed raga delineation and interesting swaras. Another highly pleasing item in the concert was the main pieceRama Neesamana Mevaruin Kharaharapriya. The alapana and the kalpana swaras were fluently rendered with fine sense of proportion. Among the closing items the JavaliSivadeekshaparuralanuin Kuranji was also sung in extremely slow tempo. B.V. Durgabhavani and N.S. Kalyanaraman provided fine support on violin and mridangam respectively.A disciple of D.K. Jayaraman, young Harish of Chennai sang brilliantly for Sri Sadguru Sangeeta Sabha of Vijayawada at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram. Tuneful and robust voice with full range were Harish&#8217;s assets.Harish started withNada Tanumanisamwith well calculated kalpana swaras. Also mathematically precise kalpana swaras gave colour to the Kapinarayana keertanaSarasa Samadanaof Thyagaraja.Sundaratara Dehamin Pantuvarali was neatly rendered and again the kalpana swaras were sung exquisitely. The main item came in the shape ofGeetardhamu, Thyagaraja&#8217;s grand composition in Surati. The raga delineation, niraval and the swaras showed amply Harish&#8217;s efficiency and aesthetic sense. He particularly excelled in the niraval. Fine support for him came from G. Satish Babu on the violin and B.V.S. Prasad on the mridangam. Prasad&#8217;s tani was full of intricate vinyasas and came to thrilling finish. Harish closed his concert with a Javali of Dharmapuri Subbarayar.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/15/stories/2008021550660200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.