(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAbsorbing recitals
p3
sVnews
p4
VKshetrayya Kala Peetham is a musical organisation exclusively working in the field of collecting, preserving and propagating umpteen compositions of Kshetrayya. It also holds music concerts. One such evening was organised at the specious hall of Sankara Mutt in New Nallakunta last week.The Kala Peetham timed this program with the celebrations of 81st birthday of renowned senior musician, `Sangeetha Vidyanidhi' Puranam Purushothama Sastry.Naishadham Rajyalaskhmi presented a  delightful veena recital. Adapting a style of play that is simple and yet sweet, Rajyalakshmi filled her repertoire with popular numbers. . The invocatoryVatapiinHamsadhwaniwas well received. So was,SudhanidhiminSunada Vinodinithat was notable for the continuity ofragabhava.Bantu ReetiinHamsanadamandBrochevarevarurainKhamastoo were pleasant.SamajavaragamanainHindolamwas a good piece. Vidyasagar lent good support throughout on mridangam.RV. Panduranga Sarma is sharpening his performance acumen with recitals, which could be noticed on this occasion. As disciple of Puranam Purushothama Sastry, he converted this recital as a tribute to his guru. Sarma's style of presentation was marked with ease and spontaneous out put reflecting his well-developedmanodharma. Hisswaraswere fluent. Komanduri Seshadri, accompanying Sarma on violin, added his own musical colour. Vidyasagar accompanied on  mridangam. On the occasion, Kshetrayya Kala Peetham honored Puranam Purushothama Sastry.Raza regalesA.P.Department of Culture and A.P. Kalavedika organised a Hindustani vocal recital of Raza Ali Khan at Ravindra Bharathi last week. Raza Ali Khan is the grandson of the late legendary personality Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and son of Ustad Mazhar Ali Khan.However, Raza Ali Khan appears to have created his own style of rendition which is marked with stupendous speed with as much ease that any vocalist would like to have, along with. Even high-speedbirkaswe find in young Raza, a typical musician who is at once creative with clear thought process in building his raga.This special identity stands by him as an individual artiste of eminence but not a shadow of father and grandfather. The concert he gave reflected all these traits in him that contributed for the establishment of his own identity, maintaining the traditions and heritage of Bade Ghulam Ali.Accompanied by Nazeemuddin Jawed on the tabla and Balwant Kulkarni on the harmonium, Raza Ali Khan opened his concert with aKhayalinRaag Yamanset tovilambit ektaal. He unfolded theragamethodically taking care of every phase andvilambitanddrutphases all adding to the overall impact. And when needed, he entertained the audience with high-speed movements that added to the general impact of theragaessay.He came out withsargamsection when he reached theMadhya Layastage inteen taal. He baffled the audience with rendition of thesargamswith phenomenal speed. And then he excelled  in theBol Taansfor which their Gwalior Gharana is known.Raza Ali later sang a couple ofthumris, Kakarun sajani ae na baalamandYaad piya ki aae, made famous by Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali much to the delight of the audience.Absorbing recitalVidushi Padma Lata, a veteran Hindustani musician, gave an absorbing sitar recital at Sri Thyagaraya Gana Sabha last week. Music Lovers' Association organised this programme. Padmalatha playedBagesriextensively with analap, jod, jhalaandgat. Thevilambitpart was so detailed that every phrase of theragathat came in bits was enjoyable.M.S.Murty, who accompanied her on tabla, displayed his own skilful percussion art in the brief solo along with good percussion support . The evening also featured Hindustani vocal recital by Vidushi. K. Deepa. She renderedMian Ki Malhar, aragaassociated with monsoon in general. Then cameraga Bahaar, another popular melody, which is associated with spring.Thetaranashe sang in this part was indeed a pleasure to listen to. Then she took up the rendition of a couple ofbhajanswithsahityaclarity. Kamalbai Toshnival (on harmonium) and Jai Kishen (tabla) lent good support .G.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/19/stories/2005081901920300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.