(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRich in rasa
p3
sVnews
p4
VRudrapatnam, a hamlet near Mysore, has given several gems to Carnatic music, who continue to hold forte with their scholarly performances. The Rudrapatnam Brothers (Dr. R. N. Tyagarajan and R.N. Taranathan) hail from such an ambience. They have created a niche for themselves with their highly individualistic style. The duo's concert at Sri Nadabrahma Sangeetha Sabha during the yearlong golden jubilee celebrations had the holistic approach of bhava-rasa-tala with sublime rendition. In harmony with perfect shruti and rhythm, the artistes drew rapt attention of the audience. "Marakatha Mani Varna" (Varali-gamakapradhana raga normally not taught) with neraval in charana "Paramapurusha Nammithini Manasara" and impressive madhyamakala svarakalapana followed. The next in line was the auspicious raga Surati ("Shivepahi Sri Chamundeshwari"), well-delineated with raga bhava, showcasing their command over classicism. Before reaching the pinnacle of raga-tana-pallavi in an exciting raga Mohana, dasa sahitya in raga Dhanyasi ("Naama sankeerthane anudina malpage") was a good interlude. Sri Purandara Dasa's well-known pallavi sahitya "Lambodara Lakumikara Ambasutha Amaravinuta" for raga-tana-pallavi was a unique choice with ragamalika svaralankara in rare ragas like Hamsabramani, Hamsavinodhini, Hamsanada and Hamsanandi derived from ragas Hemavati and Shankarabarana.The rhythmical excellence by Vidwan Bangalore Sudheendra and Sukanya Ramagopal on mridanga and ghata took the concert to peak point. The homogeneity of ecstatic melody of Dr. R.N. Taranath with that of erudite rendition by Dr. Tyagarajan made a perfect combination of dexterous music The concert was concluded with a mangalam in raga Sourashtra ("Pavamana Suthadu").Sri Nadabrahma Sabha Mysore has launched a new chapter by organising a weeklong Nadakishirotsava in which more than 25 young artistes of the city and Bangalore will take part. Except for a veena concert by Sahana, most artistes will be performing vocal music.  Many stalwarts of music and dance have performed at Sri Nadabrahma Sangeetha Sabha named after the music wizard Mysore Vasudevacharya. The tireless efforts of erstwhile secretary, late M. H. Raja Rao, the Sabha was considered as the destination of eminent artistes and the audience. A seminar on Mysore Vasudevacharya was a landmark event organised by the late M.H. Raja Rao.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/11/stories/2006081102360300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.