(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRagas delineated at sedate pace
p3
sVnews
p4
VGARIMELLA SUBRAMANIAMThe enormous confidence that Vasudha Keshav exuded in her recital for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam on Sunday last merits special mention. For, accompanying the young vocalist was unarguably a man much taller in stature and reputation,  veteran violin virtuoso M.S.Anantharaman.  Anantharaman was gracious enough to fill in for M.A. Krishnaswami. Vasudha met the challenge without losing nerve.Vasudha's  opening piece in Saranga was sung with power as befits this raga, which is made up of many sharp notes. It also had the flare that is appropriate to present a varnam. You would expect an Annamacharya kriti to feature in a kutcheri at the TTD auditorium.But "Ranganadhude" (Ponnaiah Pillai,  Saurashtram) has a beauty all its own and the young vocalist took full advantage of this scale early in the performance.Nice finishThen, Vasudha gave a brisk feel of ``Brovabharama,'' the Tyagaraja kriti in  Bahudari. And when you were just beginning to wonder if the improvisation was getting a little lengthy, she brought it to a nice finish. She followed this up with the first major composition of the evening, "Srivenkatesam Bhajami Satatam,'' by Dikshitar in Kalyanavasantam. Vasudha seemed to maintain a cultivated distance from phrases in the faster tempo in the alapana. Indeed, this was characteristic of the entire recital.The nimble fingers that conveyed the refinement and imagination of  Anantharaman  were ever so noticeable in the alapana of  Dhanyasi.This grew more prominent in the expositions of ragas Rishabhapriya and Bhairavi. As Vasudha sang the Annamacharya kirtana, "Devadevambhaje Divya Prabhavam,'' the other version of this popular piece sung in  Hindolam came to mind.Conversely, her choice of the Mysore Vasudevachar kriti, ``Mahatmule Teliyaleru,'' in Rishabhapriya was an example of the innumerable ragas and kritis that need to be showcased  by artistes.Tiruchi Murali on the ghatam and Ranganathan on the mridangam were particularly impressive in the tani avartanam that followed the Bhairavi composition ``Koluvai Unnade.''Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070702450400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070702450401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCONFIDENT APPROACH: Vasudha Keshav, accompanied by M.S.Anantharaman (violin), Tiruchi Murali (ghatam) and Ranganathan (mridangam).
p14
ss.