(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTowards excellence
p3
sVnews
p4
VMANJARI SINHASanskriti literally means the process of cultivating and the Sanskriti Pratishthan has been working towards cultivating an environment for both preservation and development of India's artistic and cultural resources. The Sanskriti Awards are known to have discovered, inspired and honoured a number of young talents who are well known names in their disciplines today. Under the aegis of Sanskriti Pratishthan, the Mani Mann Fellowship in Hindustani Classical Vocal Music has been instituted by Mani Mann, a philanthropist and lover of Indian music. The aim of the fellowship is to enable young Indian vocalists between the ages of 25 and 40 years to strive for excellence in their art. The fellowship also provides them an opportunity to work, study and learn under the guidance of a senior guru for one year.To celebrate the institution of the fellowship, Sanskriti presented a Hindustani vocal recital by Subhadra Desai, the first recipient of the Mani Mann Fellowship for the year 2005 at Sanskriti Kendra this past week. Subhadra was initiated into music at an early age by Pandit Vinay Chandra Maudgalya and Padma Devi at Gandharva Mahavidyalaya and graduated with Sangeet Visharad. To achieve finer artistic insight, she continues to learn under the tutelage of Pandit Madhup Mudgal. During the fellowship she has undertaken a residency programme with Guru Vidushi Malini Rajurkar, Guru Dinkar Kaikini and Vidushi Vasundhara Komkali to enhance her skill.Sombre startThe open-air stage with the artistic backdrop of the Crafts Village and the aesthetic floral décor created the perfect ambience for the evening concert. By selecting the sombre dusk time melody Shree as her main raga and with its in-depth handling, Subhadra proved herself worthy of the fellowship. The opening bara khayal in slow Ek tala was befittingly handled with the detailed alap barhat, bahelava and finally the forceful taans. It was followed by a refreshing tarana set to Teen tala in the same raga  -   a beautiful composition that gave you a sense of wonder, starting dramatically from the Taar Shadja.Next, she sang the famous Nirgun bhajan of Gorakhnath "Duje Ke Sang Nahin Jaungi" immortalised by her grand-guru Kumar Gandharva. One enjoyed the typical Gujarati garba rhythm in the bhajan of Malook Das "Ram Ram Rom Rom." That would have made the perfect concluding number, but she went on to sing the Kabir bhajan "Haman Hain Ishque Mastana, Haman Se Hoshiyari Kya" on request and sounded tired.Subhadra's recital was noteworthy for her well matured voice that spoke of her working religiously on swaras lately. Her meticulous tuning of tanpuras and a highly resonant tonal flavour, a specialty of her guru Madhup Mudgal also impressed one. There were artistes like Mahmood Dhaulpuri and Deepak Garud to support her on the harmonium and the tabla respectively. Subhadra does have the potential for professional excellence; one hopes she strives hard enough to make the most of the opportunity she has bagged.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/07/stories/2006040701200200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/07/images/2006040701200201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VIMPRESSIVE WORK Subhadra Desai in concert
p14
ss.