(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe unforgettable voice
p3
sVnews
p4
VLAKSHMI DEVNATH"Music found me; I'm grateful to have been given a chance to take a dip in the ocean of music." Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan speaks in soft cadences. There is an amazing lack of pretentiousness about her. As a young artiste, her music was noticed and appreciated but sadly her career as a performer never took off on the fast track. Yet, the librettos of the musical play of her life echo with an admirable fulfilment as she happily informs us that she has been chosen  for the "Senior Musician's Award," her first ever, from the Narada Gana Sabha, which she will receive today. The 78-year-old musician, with characteristic old-world charm, recounts her story, taking us back to Madurai, the place of her birth."Doesn't Pappa sing just like our Kunjamma?" Shanmukhavadivu's voice glowed with appreciation as young Ananthalakshmi faithfully reproduced her famous daughter M.S's film songs. Their timbres were similar too! Pappa's briga-laden voice had an enviable ability to reproduce all that she heard.And she listened to music, all the time. Pappa tuned in to her mother Ambu's informal singing sessions, to the neighbour's gramophone player and radio.Ananthalakshmi reminisces, "My first lessons were through extensive listening and my sadhakam constant humming. I did have formal training too." Ambu's teacher, Subramania Iyer commenced classes for the six-year old. He taught for just six months but laid a strong foundation.Even as a child, Ananthalakshmi's sparkling voice earned her minor performance opportunities. From her tenth year onwards, it became increasingly clear that music would be Ananthalakshmi's mainstay. At eleven she gave her first concert that was presided over by Ariyakkudi. At twelve Kumari Ananthalakshmi was a radio artiste. At fifteen, the judges of the Music Academy competitions, GNB and Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai, awarded her the HMV gold medal besides other prizes.Forthwith, HMV requested her to cut discs for them and the Academy offered her the opening-day concert, in the following year. The winning spree continued...  HMV went on to inaugurate its first-ever Tamil kutcheri set by their prize-winning candidate. The HMV popularity charts listed Ananthalakshmi next only to M.S. and DKP.In 1943, 15-year-old Ananthalakshmi got married to Sadagopan. Post-marriage, she had rigorous training in music under Sattur A.G.Subramaniam. Over the years, she learnt from other stalwarts too. Sadagopan was supportive of his wife's aim to be a concert performer but his transferable job was a speed breaker. The pace was further slowed down by the couple's principled stance that they would never approach anybody for concert opportunities. Despite these, Ananthalakshmi's music compelled the appreciation of both rasikas and vidwans.In the 1980s, lyricist Ambujam Krishna discovered another facet of this low-profile musician. Brushing aside Ananthalakshmi's remonstration,  Ambujam Krishna coaxed Ananthalakshmi to tune some of her compositions. And she  went on to tune musical features, operas and dance compositions."Please remove these tubes and send me home just for Vijayadasami. I need to bless my students. I'll get re-admitted," an ailing Ananthalakshmi pleaded with her doctor. This dedicated teacher has many concert-worthy students to her credit.Illness has affected her voice. "But I'm content listening to good music," Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan signs off on an inspiring note.Words of wisdomAnanthalakshimi's pearls of wisdom to her beloved disciples include: "A musician must be aware of his strengths and weaknesses; intelligent practice is a must; learning from a worthy guru, for a length of time is advantageous; select songs can be perfected to become one's masterpieces; never compromise on quality.``The success of a concert depends on several factors &#151; ability to gauge the requirement of the audience; right mix of songs that include familiar and unfamiliar, fast and slow paced; presentation of ragas and swaras proportionate to the stature of kritis...``Finally it is experience that counts. Music will then exert its intrinsic magnetism."Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/15/stories/2006121500670300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/15/images/2006121500670301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSIC FOUND HER: Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan.
p14
ss.