(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VStretching the bounds of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VShe is a popular name in the world of Carnatic music and has touched many with her enthralling voice. Believing strongly that it was music that brought her into contact with the rest of the world, ace vocalist Sudha Raghunathan has used her talent to reach out successfully to a wider section of people through a gamut of social causes, through her Samudhaaya Foundation and also by being a principle member of various other organisations. Uplift of the community of musicians, activities to arrest misappropriation of music rights and spreading communal harmony are some of the causes high on her agenda. Sudha belongs to the GNB (G.N. Balasubramanian) school of music and is the disciple of the legendary musician late M.L. Vasanthakumari.This Saturday, connoisseurs of Carnatic music in Delhi will get a taste of her versatility at the annual Dakshinayan festival organised by Banyan Tree. The Chennai-based artiste here takes a few questions on the world of music and also what keeps her motivated to contribute to the society. Excerpts from the telephonic interview: On social causes taken up through her Samudhaaya FoundationLast year, we raised money for The Clarke School for the Deaf, the Dean Foundation, which caters to the elderly and those suffering from incurable, terminal, irreversible and advanced diseases, and Tulir, the Centre for the Prevention &amp; Healing of Child Sexual Abuse. Also, last October, on the occasion of the 20th t death anniversary of my guru MLV Amma, I started an initiative for organ donation. We had about 25 donors coming forward immediately, including three from my family. Think of the good life we are leading today with all our senses and limbs intact. I think we should let them outlive us and help them reside in other deserving souls.In addition, we took Carnatic music to Corporation-run schools and also to the Government aided schools. The normal complaint is, Carnatic music is only for a particular group of people. I tried to defy that and presented two concerts myself and also got younger artistes to sing in them. We sang Tamil songs and songs known to school children and it worked.On younger artistesWe have a good crop of younger Carnatic musicians. They are very serious not only about their goals but also about the essence of music that they want to offer. They are progressing very fast with the Internet and availability of learning materials. The exposure to them is on a larger platter. But they should keep in mind that once they are on the concert circuit they stop learning.On fusion musicAs long as fusion is meaningful and brings out the characteristic traits of music that you represent, it is welcome. Actually, it is a kind of an innovation. Innovation stimulates your art form. I am associated with two world music groups, one in Germany and one in France. I have sung with different world music groups also. It has been productive and the sound is very different and that is what attracts the audience. Recently, I did a recital with T.M. Krishna in Chennai which was a fundraising concert to help retired artistes. The theme was the duality of life, be it in nature, human beings, emotions or aspects of music itself, like the bani (style), pitch or ideology. These have been well received.(Sudha Raghunathan performs this Saturday at Dakshinayan-2011 at Sri Satya Sai International Centre, Lodi Road, New Delhi, at 6.30.p.m.)
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/03/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/03/25/stories/2011032550330200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/03/25/images/2011032550330201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVocalist Sudha Raghunathan.
p14
ss.