(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VEnthralling musical fest
p3
sVnews
p4
VPanthula Rama of Vizag, who opened the three-day festival of Nada Prabha, stole the show with a wonderful vocal concert. Disciple of Ivaturi Vijayeswara Rao renowned for making great singers from the coastal belt, Rama revealed excellent vocal verve that has enviable vocal compass. Her sarvalaghu akaaras were fast and clear.The concert from the start moved with great momentum. Her accompanists, violinist M.S.N. Murthy and mridangam player K. Sadgurucharan, no less in their respective fields, equally contributed to the concert. While Murthy responded well to all her technical exercises of raga, nereval and swara, Sadgurucharan rightly played mellow with command on the instrument, projecting Rama's voice perfectly.Rama started with a traditional opening to her concert with Kambhoji ata tala varnam in two speeds,. Pranamamyaham Sri Gowri Sutam of Deekshitar was chosen for invocation. Sogasu Chooda Tharama of Thyagaraja in Kannadagowla was a beauty in itself as the kriti's import. Then she took up a rare Adenamma Harudu in Farazu and presented it in breezy spells.She then presented another rare raga Vanaspathi for the Thyagaraja's &#8216;Pariyachakama'. The swarakalpana she presented was in breathtaking speed. Then came a rarest composition of Thyagaraja, Kaaru Velpula Neeku Sari in Kalayani. The raga expansion itself was a fine exercise and built it well in all its octaves with equal impact.The sahitya part was so vivid that audience could follow the sahitya content of Thyagaraja . Swarakalpana was in sarvalaghu technique carrying the melodic line perfectly. There was a bit of nereval too before that. Raminchu Vaarevarura in Suposhini ragam, was a quick number. Then she chose to present a sloka set in raga chain of Ananda Bhairavi, Hamsanandi, Udyaravichandrika and Dwijavanti and used the last raga to present the Annamayya kirtana Ramachandrudithadu which was a beauty in itself.Her last piece was Swathi Tirunal's Bhajan Ramachandraprabhu in Sindhubhairavi.For a change, this festival was rightly opened y by Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, who attended the festival on all the evenings. The festival was organised by Padmaja Rambabu and Trustee of the Nada Prabha, J. Rambabu IAS (Retd.)Flawless flute recitalThere were concerts earlier to invoke the rain Gods. Flautist Jayaprada Ramamurthy played a composition Maitreem Bhajatham invoking peace and tranquillity in these turbulent times. Penned by the late Paramaacharya of Kanchi Kamakothi Peetham this came towards the end of the concert almost at Mangalam. From the beginning Jayaprada set herself to go different from the usual. Vandeham Jagat Vallabham, Annamacharya Kirtana in Hamsadhwani opened her show.She tried to give the essence of all the ragas and swaras in all the compositions, going imaginative in presenting them, to give us a refreshing feel. Then she went for Melakarta raga Rishabha Priya and presented a rare composition, Mahima Tagginchukonavayya Rama in Desadi Talam of Thyagaraja. The raga and swara phrases were enlivening. She had three main pieces in the concert of which Kalyani was one. She gave musical brief of the majestic raga Kalyani and went for Dikshitar's popular Navavarna Kirtana, Kamalambam Bhajare.The mridangam player entertained us here with a brief solo.Then she played the number Maitreem Bhajatam. Later she played Visweswra Darshana Karo in Sindhu Bhairavi and Annamacharya's Tiru Tiru Jawarala, set to music by Balakrishna Prasad in Gambheera Nata. Yet another surprise number was the concluding piece of Swati Tirunal's Bhujanga Sayino in Yadukula Kambhoji in Roopaka Talam.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/01/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/01/01/stories/2010010150180300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/01/01/images/2010010150180301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VJayaprada.
p14
ss.