(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe homeward journey of music
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 2007-08 festival was marked by a large number of NRI artists who gathered to pay tribute to the late R. Ramachandran, founder-secretary of Hamsadhwani. Six NRI musicians shared their experiences and insight in a lively exchange that sought to explore whether the grass really was greener on the other side.Geetha Bennett (GB), daughter of the illustrious guru and vidwan S. Ramanathan is a leading veena artist who has made the U.S. her home for several years now. Kiranavali Vidyashankar (KVS), from the parampara of gottuvadyam Narayana Iyengar, is a vocalist as entrenched in her roots as musician siblings Ravikiran and Shashikiran. Having seen her share of concert arenas as soloist and accompanist, Kalpana Venkat (KV), disciple of T. Rukmani and P.S. Narayanaswami, is an accomplished vocalist and violinist. Vocalists Geetha Sundaresan (GS, disciple of D.K. Pattammal and Sulochana Pattabhiraman), M. Yogeswaran (MY, disciple of T.V. Gopalakrishnan) and Yamini Ramesh (YR, disciple of Madrimangalam Ramachandran, T.R. Subramanaiam and Lalgudi G. Jayaraman) are &#8216;seasoned&#8217; performers and Hamsadhwani regulars.What makes the Hamsadhwani NRI fest special? Has it helped generate more performing opportunities during the Season?Does a separate NRI fest give other sabhas an excuse to edge you out of the already overflowing main slots?Are you happy with the quantum of press/media coverage you get? Do reviews make a difference?As gurus, how would you describe the present generation of disciples? How can they best adapt to the discipline demanded by classical music when they are surrounded by distractions?Is a full-time career in music financially sustainable abroad?Finally, about the NRI tag itself ....Whether in Mylapore or New Jersey, art is art. But the tag is important in influencing young people. It reminds them that there are those who pursue art despite other commitments. While technology provides greater access to classical arts, youngsters must listen to more live performances to keep the artist-rasika connect intact. Greater press coverage would benefit these artists, as their progress needs recognition.&#8221;
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/03/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/03/28/stories/2008032851450300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.