(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VKiss of life and longevity
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe ancient city of Varanasi is popularly known as a city that celebrates death.  But it is now celebrating the dying phase of Khayal.  One would not believe  this because Varanasi is regarded as the musically rich centre of Dhrupad and Khayal, but I\u000a am sorry to inform you that we are witnessing the rapid decline of this old music form.  But to improve the stupor-like condition of Khayal, Ashok Kapur, organiser of an established classical music organisation Kala Prakash, is now running a series of Khayal concerts. The series, Guru Pranam Shisya Parampara, focuses on the talented disciples of Pandit Rajan-Sajan Mishra of the Banaras gharana. In the next phase, the organisation will concentrate on other artistes related to Khayal.The series started with Ritesh and Rajnish Mishra, talented offspring of Pandit Rajan  Mishra, followed by another disciple of this duo, Swarna Vij, who performed raga Bhimpalasi with profound feeling.This week, the third episode of the series unfolded with the confident voices of Prabhakar and Diwakar Kashyap from Nasik. This duo of disciples of Rajan-Sajan Mishra performed raga Puriya Dhanashri. Their  taiyari (virtuoso technique) was obvious. The listeners of Banaras were overwhelmed for they were listening to the finer nuances of Khayal after a long while. They were accompanied on the tabla by Kishor Mishra and on the sarangi by Santosh Mishra.Prabhakar is sharp and Diwakar is good in vilambit (the slow tempo)  of this raga. However, a virtuoso presentation does not make up for a lack of soul. One expected emotion, especially when they took up a raga like Puriya Dhanashri. Also, if one claims to belong to the Banaras gharana, the essential features of this lineage need to be redefined and repackaged for changing times. But the taans that the duo rendered &#8212; sapaat, firat and larajdaar &#8212; were not from the Banaras gharana.After  the evening raga,  it was raga Megh that followed. Listeners found it apt in this season of Sharad. This was impeccably performed by the Kashyap Brothers. This kind of raga requires extensive variations and these were present  in full energy with patterns of taans.Finally, they  sang a bhajan in raga Kirwani. It was full of dedication but devoid of heart. That is, the connotations of devotion were there, but connotation is more an image than the real thing. To give listeners a glimpse of real devotion, it is necessary to drop the intellectual approach to the song.All in all,  it  is a good sign that people are coming for this Khayal series, and this will hopefully enrich it.  Good wishes to this series.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/10/10
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/10/10/stories/2008101050340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2008/10/10/images/2008101050340201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDouble PowerRitesh and Rajnish Mishra also performed at Guru Pranam Shisya Parampara
p14
ss.