(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDevout Thyagaraja Aaradhana fete
p3
sVnews
p4
VA four-day fete of Thyagaraja Aradhana was organised in the premises of Sri Sankaramatham beginning last Thursday by Sri Vijaya Thyagaraja Sangeetha Sabha, which celebrated its diamond jubilee recently. While the concerts, vocal by A. Sadasivam from Bangalore, N. Harish from Chennai and veena by Revathi Sadasivamm, filled the air on the first three evenings, Sunday morning witnessed Pancharatnakriti sevafollowed by recitals by local artistes and winners at the inter-state competitions conducted by the Sabha recently.Noted violinist Komanduri Krishnamacharyulu who retired as staff artiste of AIR studios at Visakhapatnam after super annuation in 1995 was felicitated at a special function got up in the evening.The sabha's titleSangeetha Sudhanidhiwas conferred on him which carried a gold medal, shawl, new clothes and a citation that were presented to him by guests of honour Ivaturi Vijayeswara Rao and IVL Sastry noted exponents of classical music.A scion of a family of musicians and exponents of Harikadha, Krishnamacharyulu was initiated into playing on violin as a young child by his father and later had advanced training first under the guidance of Saride Subba Rao and under the expert tutelage of reputed violinvidwanlate Dwaram Narasingarao Naidu under Gurukula system. He passed the diploma examination in music from M.R. Music Govt. College, Vizianagaram.His ardently knowledgeable solo performances by choice led him to accompany maestros of vocal and instrumental music like Dr. Balamurali, Dr. Sripada Pinakapani, Dr. D.K. Pattammal, Dr. Nedunuri, Dr. Eemani, T.R. Mahalingam and mandolin U. Srinivas to name a few.Recipient of many titles likeVayuleena VidyapraveenabesidesGurusatkaramsincludingEemaniandUgadi Puraskars, he had the privilege of being invited to lend support on violin in Akashvani Sangeetha Sammelan concerts and South Zone Hook-up and spirit of unity concerts organised by Madras Telugu Academy.Absorbing vocal recital rendered by Manda Sudharani in the company of Pantula Rama on violin and staffer AIR Hyderabad Nemani Somayajulu on mridangam marked the grand finale.A.R.SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/26/stories/2007012600590200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/01/26/images/2007012600590201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VKomanduri Krishnamacharyulu
p14
ss.