(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VExpression of total surrender
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANBright morning light streamed in through the clerestory windows illuminating the pillared hall of the C. P. Ramaswami Foundation which resonated with the cadences of Tyagaraja's Utsava Sampradaya and Divya Nama kirtanas rendered by Sumathi Krishnan, disciple of R.Vedavalli, in her lecture demonstration. She was ably accompanied by Amrita Murali (violin) and Thillaistanam Suryanarayana (mridangam). The ambience &#151;  carved wooden balustrades, whitewashed walls hung with oleographs, Thanjavur paintings and sepia-tinted family photographs &#151;  transported one to an age of leisure that seemed far removed from the din of traffic-clogged roads just beyond the gates.Tyagaraja, the saint-composer and the best-known among the revered Trinity of Carnatic Music was born in Tiruvarur in 1767.  Tyagaraja's absolute devotion to Lord Rama became the very focus of his existence. His compositions were therefore an expression of his total surrender to Rama in thought, word and deed.His adoration of the Lord turned his daily worship into nityotsava. He visualised Rama as the Divine Being to whom he could offer obeisance through the most auspicious ceremonies like the kalyanotsava, nalangu and harati.Salient pointsExplaining the salient points and illustrating them by her melodious rendition of relevant stanzas, Sumathi presented an insight into the lyrical subtleties of the Utsava Sampradaya kirtanas. In "Hecharikaga ra ra," she drew attention to the third charanam where a wealth of imagination leads Tyagaraja to describe how the parrot perched on Parvathi's hand speaks of Rama's greatness to the delight of those assembled. Rama's splendour as king of the celestial heavens is elaborated in the lines "Vudu raajamukudu."Dwelling upon the marriage ceremony in "Seetha kalyana vaibhogame," the composer moves on to the nalangu in krithis like Nagumomu (Madhyamavathi) and "Naapaali sri rama" (Navroj) where there is a pun on the word "padamu" (feet). This is followed by the harathi performed to ward off the evil eye  in ragas like Arabhi, Suruti and Pantuvarali, the last sung in madhyama sruthi in keeping with the Thillaistanam tradition. Then comes the Sobhane for the mangalasnanam with oil and fragrant herbs. Next, Rama is seated on the oonjal and swung gently back and forth, the laali depicting the rhythmic sway ("Laali gunashaali" in Kedaragowla). With amazing attention to detail, Tyagaraja even describes the ingredients &#151;  "Jaajiyalu, elakulu, jaapatri, vakkalaakulu" &#151;  wrapped in betel leaves and offered by Sita in the composition "Vidamu seya" (Kharaharapriya). Then Rama is lulled into sleep (Jojo Raghukula Tilaka) and coaxed into wakefulness (Melukovaiyya).Tyagaraja held that chanting the Rama nama just three times was equivalent to chanting the Sahasranama, a fact verified by quick reference to the rules governing pnemonic values as per the Katapayadi Sankhya! The Divyanama kirtanas are therefore distinguished by certain features. The anu pallavi is usually dispensed with and the pallavi is followed by multiple charanas set to a catchy metre and simple refrain that makes them ideally suited for group singing.The evocative strains of Bhoopalam permeated the atmosphere in ``Deenajanaavana Sri Rama" which dwells upon the admirable attributes of Sri Rama. ``Rama Kodanda Rama" (Bhairavi) and "Paripaalaya" (Ritigowla) followed. ``Tavadaasoham" in which Tyagaraja reiterates his unquestioning surrender to the son of Dasaratha, was the concluding composition.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041401890400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041401890401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VINSIGHT: Sumathi Krishnan giving a lecture demonstration.
p14
ss.