(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPetals of a performance
p3
sVnews
p4
VGulab Bari, (literally &#8216;the abode of roses&#8217;)  has been a long musical tradition of Banaras. We find  Gulab Bari musical events even in the era of Bharatendu Harishchandra in the mid 19th Century, which were usually conducted after Holi. A\u000ashok Kapoor of Kala Prakash (an established organisation that conducts music concerts in the city)  has been trying to revive this beautiful tradition for a few years now. Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, Shubha Mudgal, Chhannulal Mishra are some artistes who have contributed to its revival.  This year after Holi, the rasikas of Banaras celebrated this tradition with Pandit Rajan-Sajan Mishra.The Mishra Brothers  opened their concert with raga Jhinjhoti. In a city where Khayal and Dhrupad were considered all but dead, the listeners expect a lot from their singers &#8212; especially in the absence of Ustad Bismillah Khan and Pandit Kishan Maharaj. The Mishras, now Delhi-based, belong to the Benaras Khayal tradition.These  brothers developed their singing styles through their father the late Pandit Hanuman Mishra, a noted sarangi exponent. By and by they assimilated influences from Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali, Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, Ustad Amir Khan, Kumar Gandharva and others into their gayaki, in such a way that listeners could easily trace the influence. Now this influence is hard to trace because they have made an amalgamated style of their own. But the echoes of Kumar Gandharva&#8217;s style were still vivid in the brothers&#8217; singing as they presented the essence  of raga Jhinjhoti. Rajesh Mishra accompanied them on the tabla. The next evening Gulab Bari was enjoyed by listeners in the Jnana Prawah premises on the banks of the  Ganga with Girija Devi. The evening blossomed with the impeccable and ageless voice of the veteran.She did not begin with bada khayal, as she does not favour vilambit with a long alap.  She simply started with a short Madhuvanti followed by a short Bhimpalasi and Mishra Khamaj. Her thumri and chaiti  were impeccably sweet.On a simple but graceful stage, decorated with leaves and with the background of trees,  she stole the hearts of Banarasis by presenting numerous thumris and chaitis.  She even presented her much loved chaiti &#8220;Ehi Thaiyan Motiya Herail ho Rama Kahwa mai Kahu&#8221;. This two-hour Gulab Bari was a touching and profound experience.  Girija Devi belongs to a tradition which is widely known for its great vocalists like Rasoolan Bai, Siddheshwari Devi, Badi Moti and others. Kameshwar Mishra and Santosh Mishra accompanied her on the tabla and sarangi respectively. Sangit Parisad organised this programme.Banaras is now surviving on light classical music like thumri, dadra, chaiti, etc. This tradition is surviving because of Girija Devi, Savita Devi and her disciple Sucharita Gupta, who performed on the last day of this Gulab Bari. Her concert was held on a large boat on which music concerts have been performed for centuries. Sucharita performed thumris, chaitis and horis in a new and experimental flavour. Lalit Kumar accompanied her on the tabla.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/04/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/04/03/stories/2009040350100200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/04/03/images/2009040350100201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VProfoundGirija Devi mesmerised as usual.
p14
ss.