(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFull play of vocal exuberance
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKThe decibel-rich performance of T.M.Krishna for the T.N.Krishnan Foundation for Performing Arts met the tasks of rasikas to draw loud applause. His style and temperament were shaped by robust, forceful endurance. This quality was very much to the fore in the raga sancharas in the tara sthayi and more pronounced in swaraprastharas. Behind every sanchara and sangati in songs there was full play of his vocal exuberance. This essential content in his technique gave the performance the spirited uplift that he had in mind.There was sharpness in the raga development of Sankarabharanam on which he lavished all his tonal strength. It served to present a deeper view of the grandeur of the raga than arohana and avarohana, which gained audience adulation. The kirtana was `Enduku Peddala.' The niraval for the line, `Veda Sastra' and the following swaras were high-flown.After a brisk beginning with `Deva Deva Kalayami' (Mayamalavagowla) and the Chayatarangini song, `Kripa Joochutaku,' Krishna landed on the languorous `Sumasayaka' (Karnataka Kapi) and Dikshitar's Manji piece, `Ramachandrena Rakshitoham.'In the whole programme, the Suratti song of Tyagaraja, `Geetaarthamu' provided the moment to reflect on the sensitivity that the song exuded.It is the artistry of accompaniments that counted most. R.K.Sriramkumar's merit in his violin support was impeccable. In the solo session his exposition of Sankarabharanam was remarkable combining sound and sensitivity in harmonious precision. The alapana was richly waned out and expressed with graceful and fluid movements, the result of years of experience. It was a vision beyond the strict ascent and descent of Sankarabharanam.K.V.Prasad, on the mridangam provided an enthralling thani avartanam giving a full screen view of laya brilliance. Soft in touch, but profound in content, it was a poetic play of stunning resonances, both in form and finesse. In his technique there was no penetrating passion for barren rhythmic display.Appealing rendition`Karuna Elagante' (Varali), `Dayaleni Bratukemi' (Nayaki), `Sarasa Saamadana' (Kapi Narayani) and `Kaligiyunte Gada' (Keeravani) &#151;  what more is necessary to make a kutcheri wholesome? The youngsters, Carnatica Brothers, Sashikiran and P. Ganesh, by the selection of these songs showed where their heart lay in framing a performance.The solid voice of Sashikiran and the pliable tone of Ganesh complemented each other to make the rendering of the kirtanas solicitously appealing. Varali raga alapana of Ganesh touched the salient morchanas to stress the gentle shades of the raga. Sashikiran's Keeravani elaboration was animated by sensitive sentiments. The kirtana bhava was well brought out.Similarly, the Varali song was sung in such a way as to convey its message of the way to gain Sri Rama's grace.Karaikal Venkatasubramanian's violin was pertinently supportive with crispness. Thrichur Narendran on the mridangam was dexterous and distinctive.Heavy voiceThe extra-heavy voice of Alleppey Venkatesan, hardly conducive to negotiable fluency, necessitated ati-vilamba kala exposition. Though `Janani Ninnuvina' (Ritigowla) and `Na Moralakimpavemi' (Devagandhari) suited his needs, they also made the kutcheri lethargic. The alapanas of these two ragas shared the same quality.The first two songs, `Sri Kanchi Nayike' (Asavei) and `Sri Rama Nannu Brova' (Bilahari) were somewhat brisk, but the unfamiliarity failed to attract notice.M.A. Sundareswaran (violin) and Mannargudi Easwaran (mridangam) introduced liveliness within their limited role.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/01/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/01/12/stories/2007011202170400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.