(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMelodious recital
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANEE KUMARNothing can cast a spell than a beautiful voice if a musician is blessed with one. And that is precisely what sets Shreeniwas Joshi apart from myriad Hindustani singers big and small. His style is reminiscent of the late Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, say the veterans who had heard the great maestro.Shreeniwas has an added advantage of going by the pulse of his viewers, which very few classical singers seem to possess. He can trim and tone his concert to suit the sort of audience he is with. Result &#151;  the crowd is glued to the seats in rapt attention!This time around, it was under the aegis of the Kannada Natya Ranga (at Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University Nandamuri auditorium) that Shreeniwas chose to render a string of Kannada devotionals but not without a formal Hindustanikhayalat the very outset.Theraag rageshrikauns(a blend ofRageshriandMalkauns) got defined in its structure as he enfolded thepakkadinto a clear ascent-descent and launched into thekhayalinteen taalwith the opening lines-dayaa mope karo prabhu...He surfed through the couplet with varying tones with his rich voice at times deep, at times vibrant in keeping with the mood of the song. Shreeniwas' staying power is a marvel to behold especially when he oscillates around the principle syllable of theraaghe chooses to present. The words in the verseBhav saagar se paar utaar.. seemed to be pulsating with life as they flowed through the vocalist's emotive tones. The stylish rendition of theaakar taanssoon followed by thebhol taansare an added asset to his rich, gifted voice.The effortless ease with which he undertakes an exposition of theraagand wraps up the purely classical part of the concert with thetaranaindruth teen taalis to be seen to be believed. The intensity and velocity with which he deciphered the nuances of thetaranawas amazing to the say the least.The devotionals be it thebhaavageethe-Devara mane idhu ee jagamellaor the very popularBhagyada Lakshmi baramma(Bhimsen Joshi's top charter), were set in the lighter classical and rendered with feeling giving full scope to appreciate the lyrical content.Raag Bhupali(akin to Mohana in Carnatic),Mishra ShivaranjaniandBhairavisurged like a rivulet in full swing.Shreeniwas has a way of leaving his mark on every song with a soulful verse recitation at the start and a sonorous tempo to the finishing line.He injects his concert with a liveliness that is so infectious as to sway the audience into a beat to thetaal. Harjeeth Singh on  the tabla and Rachana on the harmonium formed a fitting orchestra.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/25/stories/2005112502020300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/25/images/2005112502020301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSTYLISH RENDITION Blessed with a rich, gifted voice and emotive tone, Shreeniwas is a marvel to behold.
p14
ss.