(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGrace wears a gorgeous garb
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKIn accordance with the yardstick of today's music appreciation (brief is not beautiful) Sanjay Subramanian, in his concert for Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, presented mega portraits of Kharaharapriya and Begada, with mega swaraprastharas, punctuated with deliberately amplified tonal bursts now and then. Rich was his manodharma, but richer still the flaunting of vocal opulence.Sanjay's technique is essentially to transform the graceful into the gorgeous. Though aggressive, assertive and punching, he never loses touch with Carnatic music's classicism.It must, of course, be conceded that by the reputation he has earned, he has the right to sing the way he feels pleasurable. Also, fastidious rasikas may be pardoned if they feel that their sensitivity is disturbed.Demonstrative overtoneThe sheer effort Sanjay put into the interpretation of the Begada kirtana "Nadopaasana" with demonstrative overtone had to be acknowledged. In the process he also defined his understanding of nadopaasana.The sangati thrusts were penetrating with the specific purpose he had in mind &#151;  the pride of achievement. The rugged exposition had to be reconciled with the motivation of his creative streak.The forcefulness in rendering the Kharaharapriya song `Kori Sevimpa" came alive with scholarly sophistication. The sahitya anubhava aspect eluded him. Comparatively, two other songs "Chinna-naate" (Kalanidhi) and "Pullin-Silambinakaan" (Tiruppavai) in Sankarabharanam without raga alapana, though stoic and sturdy, had a touch of elegance.S. Varadarajan, on the violin, revealed his familiarity with Sanjay's style, though the strings could not reproduce the same loud bursts as that of the vocalist. His version of Kharaharapriya and Begada lingered on their graces.The heightened resonance of mridangam play by Neyveli Venkatesh sprang from his clear perception that sound, whether on an instrument or vocal, has to be musically soothing.There was more of beauty than bounce in his beat-patterns. It is a testament to his sensitivity that opened up a laya-rich melodic world.Tradition and talentThe deep impression of Lalgudi G.J.R.Krishnan's and Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi's violin duet performance stressed close intimacy between their natural talent and the Spartan discipline they have gone through.It provided a glimpse into how these two factors have shaped their music. The values and creativity reflected the care their father Lalgudi Jayaraman has bestowed on them.Remarkable easeThe exposition of Nattakurinji (``Kuvalayadala") by Vijayalakshmi and Bhairavi (``Bala-Gopala") by Krishnan was remarkable for the ease with which their manodharma and expression moved with harmonious precision.The concert began with racy renditions of the kritis, "Aparadamula-Norva" (Rasali) "Entanine" (Urmika) and "Ninnu-vina-sukhamu-gana" (Todi). The rendering of the song "Balagopala," the earlier alapana and swaraprasthara for the line "Drona-Karna" were bright and articulate in substance and style.Percussion accompanists were Parti Satishkumar (mridnagam) and T.V. Vasan (ghatam).The former was tuneful during songs, but beat-strong in the tani.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/15/stories/2006091502590400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/15/images/2006091502590401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRICH MANODHARMA: Sanjay Subramanian.
p14
ss.