(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VAligned in perfect balance
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANProportion was the keyword of R. Vedavalli's vocal recital for the Musiri Chamber Concert Circle. The elements of raga, neraval and kalpanaswara were aligned in perfect balance and never once overstepped their boundaries in terms of relevance or duration. Yet spontaneity did not take a back seat.Manodharma tempered by an innate dignity kept the flag of classicism flying high.In the sedately-paced Tyagaraja kriti, "Meru Samaana" (Mayamalavagowla), the neraval and selective rounds of swaras in two speeds stood out as a cohesive concept. Likewise, Tyagaraja's "Maati Maatiki" in Mohanam (misra chapu) with its emphasis on the bhava-oriented approach leaned more towards sowkhyam than a breezy overview. Instead, it was the Tamil composition, "Varugiraano Vaaraano" which did duty as the brisk filler. The Nayaki alapana characterised by economy of expression effectively prepared the ground for Tyagaraja's "Kanukonu Sowkhyamu."Still SahanaRich with meaningful content, it was a still Sahana that ran deep. The detailed delineation threw light upon variegated facets, each reflecting the subdued glow of the other. The theme was carried forward in the Tyagaraja composition, "Giripai" while the swaraprastharas seemed an effortlessly graceful extension of the raga swaroopa rather than a separate entity, the dip and swell of the gamakas imbuing them with a coursing flow that was encompassing in its benevolence."Nee Vaadane Gaana" (Saranga) preceded the main piece, a ragam-tanam-pallavi in Sankarabharanam. The raga suite was an impressive edifice strengthened by prolonged halts at the panchama and tara sthayi shadja, evocative karvais juxtaposed with jarus and medium to fast prayogas. The mike that chose to make its presence felt with uncanny precision at this point erupted in a series of muffled explosions that the artiste however took sportingly in her stride. The malfunction was soon rectified and the powerfully structured motifs of the tanam resonated with purpose and authority. The pallavi was affixed with kalpanaswaras woven with engrossing permutations.A gently lulling "Re Re Maanasa Gopalam" followed the sloka rendered in Shanmukhapriya, Saveri and Dwijavanti.Maturity of phrasing and graceful exposition distinguished Usha Rajagopal's violin accompaniment. Manoj Siva presented a tani brimming with verve while his consistency in maintaining kalapramana heightened the impact of the compositions.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/14
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/14/stories/2006041402481000.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/04/14/images/2006041402481001.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VR. Vedavalli
p14
ss.