(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPleasing and perfect
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIWith her soft and soothing voice, discerning selection of krithis, and her pleasing stage presence, Gayathri Venkataraghavan delighted her rasikas at Pravachana Mandapam, Ram Nagar, Coimbatore.She featured in this month's musical series, `Eppadi Paadinaro,' organised by Sri Krishna Sweets. Mayamalavagowla, Khamas, Panthuvarali and Kamboji were the ragas that got elaborate treatment, among which Kamboji reigned supreme bringing into focus her rich voice that journeyed in all the three octaves.Moving"Thulaseedhalamula" and "Seethapathi" were presented with devotion. During the neraval for `Saraseeruha punnaaga' one could visualise Thyagaraja performing pooja. The variety she brought in during the neraval for `Prema joochi na pai' ("Seethapathi") enhanced the effect of the devotion-packed krithi. Arunachalakkavirayar's "Eppadi manam thunindhadho" in Huseni was moving with delicious pathos. The regal Panthuvarali and the krithi by Badrachala Ramadas, "Ennagaanu Ramabhajana," reminded one of the late Nightingale of carnatic music. "O...  Ranga Saayee," the crowning glory emerged as a lovely maiden decorated with beautiful ornaments. "Raman naamame thuthi maname," "Bhavayami Gopala baalam," "Anumanai anudhinam ninai maname," "Arula vendum thaaye" "Srinivasa Thiruvengadamudaiyaan" and the ever-present "Kurai onrum illai" featured in the lighter session.Her choice of phrases for neraval and the way she handled them showed her hold over the spirit of the krithis. The effortless ease with which she presented difficult sangathis and scintillating combinations of swaras were the result of diligent practice. During the rendering of the krithis she exhibited respect for the composer and treated the compositions with care.With her perfect diction and prayerful attitude she  acted as a medium between the composer and the listener.Palakkad Sindhu was very supportive on the violin and the brothers G. Prakash on the mridangam and G. Suresh on the ghatam gave a spirited display of their talent.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/01/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/01/06/stories/2006010600050200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/01/06/images/2006010600050201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGayathri Venkata- raghavan.  Photo: S. Siva Saravanan.
p14
ss.