(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VSteeped in divinity
p3
sVnews
p4
VM. S. Subbulakshmi _ Live at RussiaSaregama - CONF 157100,157101Classical carnatic - Two volumes - Rs. 350M. S. Subbulakshmi, the uncrowned empress of Carnatic music, whose magnetic presence in the sphere for more than seven decades, was unparalleled. An artiste consumed by a fierce passion for quality presentations, she earned the reputation of being the "sole custodian of melody, bhava and devotion." Her live concert at Russia has been released by Saregama (RPG). The accompanists are Kandadevi Alagirisami (violin), K. V. Prasad (mridangam), T. H. Vinayakaram (ghatam) and G. Harishankar (kanjira). As customary, even the opening lines of the Dakshinamurti sloka in Yamunakalyani lays the foundation for a couple of hours of music steeped in divinity.Dikshitar's inimitable composition "Vathapi" in Hamsadhwani with lively swara passages and Syama Sastri's "Durusuga" leave an impeccable stamp in the album. Kharaharapriya elaborated with great sensitivity, thrives beautifully on korvais, soulful prayogas pertinent to the raga swaroopa, which is the stuff of a legend. "Pakkala Nilabadi" in misra chapu with neraval and swara improvisations is an eclectic blend of mellifluence and rhythm.The raga Sankarabharanam is the exclusive territory of Subbulakshmi. The slow phrases with intermittent significant pauses that allows the rasika to enjoy and appreciate what has been offered, reinforces the concept that any system of traditional music is sublime, and Carnatic music more so because of the creations of poets who sought to attain salvation through the medium of their musical expression. Subbarama Dikshitar's "Sankaracharyam" on Adi Sankara, sung with percentage lyrical clarity, the emotion charged expansion of the Sahitya sequence "Paramagnalathaalavala," and the madhyama and dhurita kala fluent sarvalagu swaras, uncomplicated yet effective are testament that for M.S. her art had not only become a way of life, but an unrelenting, ceaseless penance.The percussion ensemble, with K. V. Prasad as the helmsman, provides a laya interlude that can be categorised as the acme of precision, perfection and presentation. The devotional songs in tuneful melodies in different Indian languages go a long way to prove Johann Sebastian Bach's words, "The aim and final end of all music should be none other than the glory of God, and the refreshment of the soul."S.P.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/03/stories/2006020302580600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/03/images/2006020302580601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VM. S. Subbulakshmi.
p14
ss.