(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VGrandeur with grace
p3
sVnews
p4
VJITENDRA PRATAPBesides being one of the leading female vocalists of India Shubhra Guha has the unique distinction of being one of the finest exponents of the khayal and thumri idioms of the Agra gharana, which is synonymous with the prowess and masculinity of the late legendary Ustad Fyaz Khan of Baroda who had been honoured by the late Maharaja of Mysore with the title of "Aftab-e-Mausiqi" meaning "the Sun of Music".Truly speaking the Agra gharana idiom is not much suited for female voices. But what makes Shubhra's singing highly appealing is her bold and powerful voice beside her feminine charm with the masculine grandeur of the gharana. She received her earlier training from the late Satish Bhowmick and later on for advanced studies she came under the tutelage of Pandit Sunil Bose, a senior scholar of the Agra gharana.In 1962, she joined the ITC Sangeet Research Academy (SRA) where Pandit Sunil Bose was a Guru in Residence and for almost a decade, she received uninterrupted training as a scholar of the SRA.Later, she received further guidance from late Pandit K.G. Ginde and the late Pandit D.T. Joshi on musicality and aesthetics. Special mention has to be made of another Agra exponent and the former Executive Director of SRA, Pandit Vijay Kichlu, whose constant guidance helped in polishing her singing style.Two streamsOver the years Shubhra has intelligently maintained the balance between the two streams of khayal and thumri by keeping intact the academic excellence with a measured blend of aesthetics and musical semantics.Her open throated akaar, her taans and bol-baants are extraordinary features of her gayaki. Her command over the rhythm is quite outstanding.She commenced her recital of the evening with a 16-beat slow tempo Teen tala composition in raga Chhayanat ("Newar ki jhankar") which she rendered at good length with elaborately improvisedalap-badhat-behelawafollowed with lively sargams and boldly deployed taans of which quite a few were reminiscent of the late Agra gharana stalwarts.The mid-tempo khayal ("Maalaniya goond laavo") delighted for the charmingly deployed variations of which several were liltingly conceived variations.Shubhra deserves praise for her scholastic handling of the raga Chhayanat, which in fact has the basic elements of the ragas Chhaya of the Kalyan mode and Nat of the Bilawal mode. She steered clear of the allied ragas such as Hamir and Kamod to mention just  two. The notable phrasing in Chhayanat, Dha-Pa-Re-Ga-Ma-Pa were interplayed with noble effects.One however felt the planning of her evening's recital was rather unbalanced. It served no useful purpose torender about as many as half a dozen thumris to conclude the recital. It would have been rather pleasing to have one more khayal and just a couple of thumris at the most.Shubhra had excellent support on the harmonium by Vinay Kumar Mishra and on the tabla by Anoop Ghosh.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120101480200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120101480201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VCAPTIVATING Shubhra Guha in concert
p14
ss.