(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VOn a green beat
p3
sVnews
p4
VRANJANI GOVINDTimes have changed. And so it has with the music world too. Most musicians of the younger tech-savvy generation are not just rooted in genres of their choice, but are comfortable in taking technology along with their melodic lines. Their contemporary mind for sure knows where they stand on global music platforms. "Hit the right note for the right effect," seems to be the mantra of this market-savvy generation, who are geared to "look much beyond music". This progressive mantra proves to be a boon to the musical fraternity, helping to take a wider perspective of the field.Khanjira artist, Ganesh Kumar, of the Vikku Vinayakram-Subhash Chandran family (currently teaching Percussive Arts at the Queens College, New York) falls into this category. Although Ganesh believes in extending his might to popularise the one-hand thumps on this round melodic wonder &#151;  similar to the tambourine of the West &#151;  and demonstrates world-variety beats on this toy-like portable marvel, it was the very making of this instrument that got him thinking. And curiosity pushed him into its environmental aspects too. Ganesh wanted to rid the instrument of the rare forest reptile (extinct now) skin that produced the shrill laya beats. The challenge was to use some other covering, so that he could produce sounds suited to various genres of music, not just Carnatic.Years of experimentation and sleepless nights proved worthwhile for Ganesh. In a collaborative venture with the world-famous manufacturers of Frame Drums, Cooperman (Vermont, U.S.), Ganesh introduced a khanjira with a special REMO cloth/mylar film that matches the flexibility of the traditional skin used from almost the early 1900s.He insists that such introductions are vital with environmental conscious people inhabiting various corners of the world. "The popularity of the instrument increases with its eco-friendly cover," reiterates Ganesh. A custom-designed copper jingle at a particular point on the circular frame is also an improvisation, which of course is optional. "Metallic infusions are not forced, a musician must decide whether his music needs these embellishments or not," says Ganesh, whose percussive talents see him mingle Carnatic, jazz, pop, fusion and world music.Since the khanjira is now a busy traveller, it did face problems with respect to its tonal quality, owing to vagaries of weather. "For this, I introduced a few holes on the rim of the maple wood (8-inch diametre with 2-inch depth) that can be tightened to adjust the tension of the REMO cloth producing the required range and sound. You no longer have to sprinkle water on the skin to control resonance," explains Ganesh.The world market for the Indian khanjira, swelling further with young ambassadors, also includes Cooperman's brand, endorsed by Ganesh Kumar now!Ganesh recently took part at the Percussive Arts Society's International Convention at Ohio where 6,000 drummers across the world congregated. His association with the western drummer Steve Smith won him several awards and accolades. Ganesh who lives eight-months a year in the U.S. went on a Fulbright Fellowship Award for 2000-2001 by the U.S. Educational Foundation. He has released CDs with Banjo player Belafleck, with Bass sensation Victor Wooten and recently with New York pop singer Mayasolovey. He also cherishes his weekend jamming sessions with African-American drummers at Harlem in New York."I have studied the Pandeiro drums of Brazil, the Irish frame drum Bodhran, the rig of the Middle East and several of South Italian origins. I combine almost 40 rudiments from these schools for world fusion with our one-hand Indian wonder," says Ganesh, who owes all his achievements to his guru, Subhash Chandran.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/30
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/30/stories/2006063002820300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/30/images/2006063002820302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGETTING TO THE BOTTOM  Ganesh Kumar's curiousity does not stop at perfecting his art, but extends to the making of the instrument too
p14
ss.