(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRefreshing treat
p3
sVnews
p4
VBold and clear well trained voice with refined musical instincts ensured a quality performance by Gadepalli Jyotsna Lakshmi, for Sangeetha Ksheera Sagaram, held at Thyagaraya Ganasabha's mini auditorium last week. Thanks to her guru Mangalampalli Suryadeepti, violinist and composer, she avoided a customary concert and went for freshness adding some rare numbers. Jyotsna did her MA (music) in Padmavati Mahila University at Tirupati, and passed a certificate and diploma course in music from Telugu University with distinction.She has enough of concert experience having performed in many places in the state and South. She learned first from Ampolu Muralikrishna, also a great violist, before she went under the tutelage of Suryadeepti. On this occasion Suryadeepti accompanied her on the violin and mridangam support was given by another seasoned hand P. Vidyasagar.She opened traditionally with Nata raga varnam Ye Naadamulo of Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna and followed it with a rare kirtana Renuka Devi of Muthuswami Deekshitar in Kannadabangala ragam, Khandachapu talam that raised great hopes for a promising concert. Endaro Mahanubhavulu was appealing not only for the way she sang but also for retaining its Sahitya appeal. After Mayateeta Swaroopini in Mayamalava Gowla of Ponnaiah Pillai with swaraprasthara in the end part, she took up her guru Suryadeepti's own composition Bhramarambike in Chalanata and revealed its sahitya richness and technical wizardry. Rama Ika Nannu Brovaraada in Sahana of Patnam that followed was also decorated with raga essay and swaras. Her alapana exercise of the two ragas Sahana and later Pantuvarali was replete with musical fervour.Pantuvarali was her main melody of the concert for Sarasaksha of Swathi Tirunal. She presented Alapana, neravu and swarakalpana. The vinyasa had systematically arranged sancharies, inducing her to scan the scope of the raga and this melody was carried into nereval and swaraprasthara. Mridangam support by Vidyasagar was congenial throughout and the Tani Avartanam he presented at spoke of his sense for rhythmic idioms penetratingly vibrant.Venkataramanane in Desh of Purandara Vithala and a Tillana in Hamsanandi of Swathi Tirunal were the concluding numbers of her show.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/06/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/06/18/stories/2010061850260400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/06/18/images/2010061850260401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMusical fervour Gadepalli Jyotsna Lakshmi.
p14
ss.