(dp1
Vheadline
p2
V&#8216;Endharo Mahanubhavulu&#8230;&#8217;
p3
sVnews
p4
VWhile accepting the fascination and appeal of the Carnatic music kutcheri, one has to fold one&#8217;s hands to render thanks to the sutradhar, who makes a kutcheri possible by bringing the musicians and the rasika at the same venue at the same time. The sutradhar in this drama is the Sabha Secretary, the unsung hero of music, but for whose unseen magic hands the kutcheris would not take place.The Sabha Secretary&#8217;s appearance is brief: once before the concert to welcome the audience and introduce the artists and again  at the end of the programme to propose a vote of thanks. But the Sabha Secretary is the live force that makes the music flow in a smooth manner, evening after evening, the year around.While drawing pen-portraits of the Sabha Secretaries in her article, &#8220;The Figures Behind the Festival,&#8221; (December 1, 2004), Kausalya Santhanam had said:  &#8220;The beavers are the Sabha functionaries, the persons who ensure that things fall in place and remain so day after day, recital after recital for a month or more. They are men who are generally neither seen nor heard in the media.&#8221;The Secretaries have dedicated their lives to the Sabhas to such an extent that their names have become part and parcel of the musical organisations, like the late R. Ramachandran, as Hamsadhwani RRC, Krishna Gana Sabha Yagnaraman, Nada Inbam S.V.Krishnan and several others. As Secretary of the Madras Music Academy for several decades, Dr.V.Raghavan had carved for himself a rare niche in the organisation of music. Their achievements are ingrained in the Carnatic music lore and successive generations of Sabha Secretaries draw their inspiration and lessons from these stalwarts.What is it that has made the Sabha Secretaries so successful in promoting the kutcheri concept. First and foremost is their ability to act as a bridge between the musicians, the rasiks and the community of the area and secondly their capacity to communicate among themselves in a genial manner and in an accommodating spirit. In some ways, the Sabha Secretary&#8217;s vocation resembles that of the high school headmaster in preparing the time-table for the whole school. Just as the headmaster has to chart the whole-year programme for all the teachers and for all the classes, being even and impartial at all times, the Sabha Secretaries have evolved among themselves a give and take attitude in sharing the musical resources available so that each organisation is able to present to its members the leading artists in a continuous manner, season after season.In a recent article  (Friday Review, March 28, 2008 &#8211;&#8220;Musiri in Malaya&#8221;) Sriram Venkatkrishnan has written about Musiri Subramania Iyer&#8217;s visit to Malay in 1935 at a time when crossing the sea was considered a religious sacrilege. What tremendous and friendly persuasion by an unknown Sabha Secretary in Malaya must have made Musiri and his troupe change their mind about going abroad. What efforts must have been put in by the Sabha Secretary to bring music, faith and religion to a people living in a place far away from their homeland.Similarly one has to think of the Herculean efforts by organisers of Sabhas in the 50&#8217;s and 60&#8217;s and continuing to present day, in cities such as Bombay, Kolkata  and Delhi.Persuading the greatest musicians of the day to undertake a 52-hour grim train travel by the Grand Trunk and the Bombay and Calcutta Mail, organisers such as T.V.Ramanujam and V.C.Mahadevan of Shanmugananda Sabha of Bombay, O.N.Nagaratnam of Delhi Tamil Sangam and innumerable others arranged vintage and quality kutcheris for the benefit of rasikas in those distant metropolises. And listening to recordings available of those concerts in Bombay, Calcutta and Delhi, one realises how the musicians had put their heart and soul into their performances specially for the benefit of their supporters in those distant places.While tours outside the home State must have been few and far between in those days of train travel, the jet age has brought about a total change in programmes and itineraries.The demand and thirst for music are insatiable among non-resident Indians, either it be United States of America, United Kingdom or Australia. The rasikas in all these places ungrudgingly give their thanks to the Sabha Secretaries in their home town in the foreign land for making live music available to them every summer and making music competitions a live force among youngsters. The organisers of these associations have been constant visitors to Chennai and have learnt their lessons from the experience of their Chennai gurus.Displaying the same dedication, the U.S. counterparts have been able to get their names prefixed or affixed to their cities or societies, like Cleveland Sundaram (organiser of annual Tyagaraja aradhana), Atlanta Ram Sriram and Houston Nalini and Prabha (Houston Classical Arts Society). The list of names is endless but it is easy and simple to express thanks to them by using the words of Saint Tyagaraja &#8230; &#8220;Endharo Mahanubhavulu&#8230; Anthariki Vandanamu.&#8221;
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/06/13
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/06/13/stories/2008061351070300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.