(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFestival ragas of Kalpathy
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. VIJAYAMBIKAParassala B. Ponnammal, the eminent musician who created history by becoming the first woman to perform in the Navratri mandapam, inaugurated  `Kalpathy Sangeethothsavam 2006.'  Her melodious and pious recital of a sloka from the Syamaladankam created a serene atmosphere.The six-day Carnatic music festival featured 10 concerts by reputed artistes. Each day, before the main concert, `Sangeetharchana' was conducted by students of Chittur College and Chembai Memorial Music College.The opening concert was that of the Malladi brothers  Sreeramprasad and Ravikumar. They created a rapport with the audience with their  first song  -   the Kamboji Ada tala varnam `Sarasinabha.' The accent on the gamakas, poorvangam in two speeds and utharangam in Madhayamakala enchanted  music aficionados of Palakkad.A Tyagaraja kriti `Sree Ganapathini' in Saurashtra, set to Adi tala, was adorned with kalpanaswara in two speeds. Sreeramprasad then moved on to an outline of Kedaram, drawing a neat sketch of the raga contours for Purandaradasa's `Harinarayana'. `Enthamudho' of Tyagaraja in Bindumalini was followed by the main raga Bhairavi. The sublimeragalapanaof the brothers that was perfectly aligned to sruthi was a mark of their classicism.The highlight of the concert was a ragam thanam pallavi in Nattakkurinji with ragamalikaswaraprasthara.The second day's programme featured the Carnatic vocal concerts of  Babay Sriram and Cherthala Ranaganatha Sharma.Stage presenceDr. Babay's confidence and stage presence stood out in her concert.   She was at home in flawlessly delineating ragas with sharp gamakas, beautiful sancharas and cutting phrases in three octaves in her deep voice.A well-structured and neatly executed alapana of `Kamakshi Bangaru,' composed by Shyama Shastri' in misrachappu, in the demanding Varali was the main raga.Cherthala Ranganatha Sharma impressed his listeners with his pliable voice and contemplative style of singing. A melodious rendition of Begada for `Tyagarajaya Namaste' was well received.The main raga Saveri was rendered with purity and perfection and many attractive sancharas were woven into it. A ragam thanam pallavi in Shanmughapriya in Chathushrajathi Thriputa in Misra Nada earned the audience's appreciation.Vayyankara Madhusoodanan's concert on the third day was infused with energy and liveliness. In an exhaustive alapana of Kalyani, the vocalist brought forth the features of Kalyani with enchanting sancharas. Dikshitar's `Kamalambam Bhajare' was the main item.S. Shasank's flute recital transported the audience to a euphonious plane. By skilfully blending  Hindustani and Carnatic styles,  creative swarakalpana and manodharma, the flautist proved that music knows no barriers.Sasank flagged off his concert with the Bhairavi Ata tala varnam `Viriboni' and he repeated the charanam in the second and third speed with a flourish. The delineation of Raga Hindolam with beautiful sancharas in Vilamba, Drutha and Athidrutha kalas was a highlight of his concert.Euphonious experienceHis ability in moving from one sthayi to another in the three octaves and in different speeds proved to be a memorable experience for the audience.A vocal concert of Vellinezhy Subramanian was the first programme on the fourth day.  The high point of the concert  was the rendition of Shyama Shastri's mellifluous Bhairvi swarajathi `Kamakshi,' set to mishra chapu, which captured the elegance of the piece.O. S. Thyagarajan, scion of a musical tradition, enchanted listeners with his powerful and vibrant voice and strict adherence to the idiom of Carnatic music.  Umayalpuram Sivaraman accompanied him on the  mridangam. The vocalist's mastery over  intricate swara patterns and perfect synchronisation of bhava, raga and laya, punctuated by the brilliance of the  percussionists, mesmerised the music lovers.OST started his concert with an intricate varnam `Karunimpa' in Sahana. It was followed by two compositions of Shyama Shastri  -  `Biranavara' in Kalyani and `Tharunam ithamma' in Gauli panth.' Both were adorned with pure and lucidswara prasthara. In the percussion ensemble, Umayalpuram Sivaraman, with his masterly strokes, unfolded inimitable techniques that showcased his prowess.Shengottai Harihara Subramanian, a promising young artiste,  came up with a scintillating performance on the fifth day. His pious rendition of Tyagaraja kritis  proved to be a blissful experience forrasikas.The second programme on the same day featured the vocal concert of  sisters Ranjani and Gayathri. Their harmonious and synchronised rendition of krithis won them the appreciation of the audience. A rare kriti `Nada thanumanisam' in Chitharanjani was their first piece. Dikshitar's `Vallabha Nayaksya' in Begada was adorned with cascadingswaraprasthara.It was followed by the pancharathna kriti in Sree raga `Entharo Mahanubhavulu.'Raga Keeravani was taken up for detailed elaboration. The sisters delineated the raga classically and mellifluously. The Tyagaraja kriti `Kaligiunde' was rendered with niravel and manodharma swaras.The music festival concluded with a jugalbandi of Carnatic and Hindustani music sung by Sreeram Parasuram and Anuradha Sreeram. Even while harmoniously blending the two streams, they maintained the  purity of each style. The duo started with the Kalyani Ada tala varnam `Vanajakshi,' which was  embellished withmanodharmaswara. They quickly moved on to Yaman dhat for `Ayire milan' in Ek tal.Next came a Dikshitar kriti `Gananayakam bhajeham' in Poornashadjam set to Adi tala.  Anuradha delineated the raga Mayamalavagoula and Sreeram rendered the raga with similar notes in Bhairav. The couple wound up the concert with an Abhang and Mangalam.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120100530300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120100530306.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRanjani and Gayathri were some of the artistes who participated in the `Kalpathy Sangeethothsavam 2006.'
p14
ss.