(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTreat to the ears
p3
sVnews
p4
VCompositions of Ramadas, Annamayya and Purandaradasa were presented.Bharadhwaja Fine Arts felicitated  Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, Sangeetha Kalanidhi at a grand function  held at the Bharadhwaja hospital in Seethammadhara. The founder-president of the association,  Dr. N. Sreenivasa Rao honoured Nedunuri with a  shawl.A vocal recital by AIR staffer, V. Mukunda Sarma andlayavinyasamby  staff artiste, V.V. Ramanamurthy along with Y.P.S. Madhubabu on theghatam, M. Ravi on thekanjeeraand  G. Venkatesh on the morsing,  marked the event. Besides the evocative  rendering of Dikshitar'sSri Saraswathi(Aarabhi),Himagiritanaye(Suddhadhanyasi) andGowrisukumariof N. Krishnamacharyulu (Vasantha), an exquisite elaboration ofParandhamavathi(Dharmavathi) were the highlights of the recital. Veterans Komanduri Krishnamachari on the violin, Vankayala Narasimham on themridangamand M. Ravi on thekanjeeraprovided excellent support.Thelayavinyasam,which followed later   was replete with lilting traverses ofchaturasram, trisramandkhandam.Similarly vocal recitals by well-known  artistes, Manda Sudha Rani accompanied on the violin by Ivaturi Vijayeswara Rao and on themridangamby K. Gnananandam, Pantula Rama accompanied by M. Srinivasanarasimhamurthy on the violin, Vankayala Narasimham on themridangamand M. Sridhar on theghatam, and G. Sarada Subrahmanyam accompanied on the violin by G. Annaji Rao, on themridangamby G. Venkata Rao and on theveenaby M. Jogulamba with her disciples N. Krishnaveni and V. Meena Kumari accompanied on themridangamby Vankayala Venkataramnamurthy stood out among the series of concerts organised in the premises of the Sadguru Sri Ramadootha Mandiram in Madhuranagar. Haunting elaboration ofApuroopacompositions of Kshetrayya likeRaama Raama(Bhairavi) and theNavavarna keerthana,Sri Kamalambikaya(Sankarabharanam) by Sudha Rani,Amma Raavamma(Kalyani) by Panthula Rama,Neerajaakshi Kaamaakshi(Hindolam) by Sarada,Kanjadalayataakshi(Kamalamanohari) andSivaganganivasini(Punnagavaraali) on the veena respectively marked the concerts.Devotional music comprising compositions of Ramadas, Annamayya and Purandaradasa besides traditional lyrics were also presented.  Veteranmridangam vidwanand principal, Bharathi Kala Vihara, Gudilova, Vankayala Narasimham rendered the recital. Kudos to the founder members of the executive committee of the temple, Ganti Narasimha Murthy and M. Ramachandram for their meticulous planning and execution of the recitals.A.R.S.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/10/21
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/10/21/stories/2005102102490200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.