(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFull of vim and vigour
p3
sVnews
p4
VTHE VIOLIN duet by M. Chandrasekharan and his daughter Bharati for Nadopasana was a proclamation of the sturdy strength of the roots of violin discipline on which the whole concert sustained itself. The angle of their vision of music was firmly set on high standards with an irrepressible drive in raga elaboration and rendering of kirtanas.The raga alapanas of Vijayanagari by Bharati and Bilahari shared between father and daughter were characterised by vim, vigour and vitality in harmony with sampradaya. It was an impeccable expression of the lilt and depth of the ragas. That their objective of the concert was unrelenting pace was obvious from the way they interpreted the songs, "Deva Deva Kalayami" (Mayamalavagowla) "Vijayambike" (Vijayanagari),  and "Anaatudanugaanu" (Jingala). The songs progressed in scorching pace, but with superb control in handling the sangatis. The peaceful and reposeful song was "Divaakara Tanujam" (Yadukulakambhoji).Thanjavur Subramaniam (mridangam) and Sivaramakrishnan (ghatam) were not a whit behind the violinists in contributing to the energetic picture of the concert. It was interesting to watch the percussion and strings drawing inspiration from the overall impact of the briskness of the musical process.Soft approachIn her performance Vijayalakshmi Subramaniam used her vocal faculties to convey softness of approach to her interpretative technique. This was further strengthened by the choice of Lalita and Sahana for alapana even at the beginning of the programme.Her musical motif was clearly etched on the songs, "Hiranmayeem" and "Chittam Irangaadadu." They were marked by a soothing flow. The uplifting part of the concert began with her alapana of Karaharapriya followed by the song, "Rama Neeyeda."  The frugal simplicity of expression was appealing. R. Hemalatha on the violin provided a mirror-like reflection of Vijayalakshmi Subramaniam's cutcheri pantha. Melakaveri Balaji (mridangam) was very accommodative to go well with the general tenor of the programme. Ernakulam Ramakrishnan (ghatam) toed the line of the mridangist.SVKBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/11
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/11/stories/2005021102280400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.