(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTime for celebrations
p3
sVnews
p4
VTHE PALGHAT Fine Arts Society, an organisation devoted to the promotion of Carnatic music and other fine arts, is celebrating its 45th annual day with the Sadhguru Thyagaraja Aradhana Festival from March 25 to 27.The organisation was registered in 1960 under the societies registration act by its founder president, late P.R. Swamy Iyer, a connoisseur of music.It promoted young talents in the Carnatic music field and some of the well-known Carnatic musicians and instrumentalists were provided a platform in their monthly concerts by the society.Doyens of Carnatic musicAlmost all the doyens of Carnatic music in the country have performed at the society. Well-known musicians like Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar, Chemmangudi Srinivas Iyer, M.S. Subbulakshmi, M.L. Vasanthakumari, M.D. Pattambal, Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, K.V. Narayana Swamy and famous instrumentalists like Mysore T. Chowdiah, Kumbakonam Rajamanikampillai, T.N. Krishnan, Lalgudi G. Jayaraman, Palghat T.S. Mani Iyer, Palghat T.S. Raghu, Mavelikkara Krishnankutty Nair, Vilwadri Iyer, Vikku Vinakayam and so on.The secretary of the society, P.N. Subbaraman, said that "the society was also encouraging young and upcoming artistes, some of whom have reached the highest peak of music world at present. They include K.J. Yesudas, Trichur V. Ramachandran, T.V. Sankaranarayanan, Madurai T.V. Seshagopalan, P. Unnikrishnan, Radha and Jayalakshmi, Bombay Sisters C. Saroja and C. Lalitha, Sudha Raghunath, Nithyasree Mahadevan, O.S. Thyagarajan, Sanjay Subramanian, T.M. Krishnan, Bombay Jayasree among others."He said that the Saxophone maestro Kadiri Gopalnath and Mandolin maestro Srinivas and the luminaries in the Nadaswaram field like late Sheik Chinna Moulana Sahib, late Namagiri Pettai Krishnan and Tiruvizha Jayashankar, used to perform at the society's monthly concerts.Subbaraman said that the society has also encouraged upcoming artists among the staff of the Chembai Music College, Chittur Government Music College, R.L.V. College of Music, Thripunithura and Swati Tirunal Music College, Thiruvanathapuram.The Society is affiliated to the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy and has been the recipient of their grant every year.Regular programmesFrom the day of its inception the society has been allowed to use Chembai Music College hall for its monthly programmes and annual programmes as part of the Thyagaraja Aradhana, free of charge. The society also commemorates the Trinity day every year in honour of the three composers Muthuswamy Dikshitar, Thyagaraja and Syama Sasthrigal.The president of the society, T.R. Rajagopalan, said that the society is planning to construct an Arts Complex in the 20-cent land it has acquired near the Chembai Music College. An auditorium with all modern facilities will be constructed here. The complex will be a centre to promote Carnatic music and other fine arts, he said.G. PRABHAKARANBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/03/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/03/25/stories/2005032502380300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/03/25/images/2005032502380301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPromoting young talents in the arena of Carnatic music.
p14
ss.