(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VClinically speaking, a fine concert
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C IYENGARThe concert attained stature with the very first itemDr. Ranganatha Iyer's concert last week under the aegis of Kalasagaram is a fine example of honest efforts and classic results in the art of music. Dr. Iyer is a busy medical man who relentlessly practices the art to perfection and has obtained professional standards. Where many musicians carp about lack of time to make progress, Dr. Iyer defies the conviction and believes in finding time amidst busy schedule to make needed progress.Vast repertoireUnder the circumstances the concert was a pleasant surprise. Hailing from Palghat, he has specialised in the compositions of Thyagaraja, Dikshithar and particularly those of Swathi Thirunal, a specialist in rendering thevilamba kala(slow moving)kritis.This aspect was rightly projected at the concert. It is noted however that Dr. Iyer finds it hard to participate in regular concerts and hence runs short of concert experience.His voice too is not honed to the desired degree and perhaps needs more depth. Both in respects of repertoire and rendering, Dr. Iyer is rich. If there are any misgivings in respect ofmanodharma sangithait is decidedly due to lack of experience in performance.The concert attained stature with the very first item, avarnaminpanthuvarali. Thekrithi, deva devainmayamalavagowladepicted his mastery in Thirunal's compositions.A rare composition inataana, sakalakalanine was a surprise item and added glamour.Lathangiwas developed in significant detail and was followed by thekriti, matrivredikkevvaru.Dr. Iyer has an unwitting tendency to lose thekalapramanamoccasionally and this was evident in the item under reference.Tliyaleruramaindhenukawas presented with feeling.Melodic beautyDr. Iyer choseshankarabharanamfor detailed analysis and thealapanacame of well and thekriti,devijagajjanani, a masterpiece of Thirunal was rendered in a classical style.Thekritihas an impressivecharanarunning inmadhyamakala, which in contrast with the overall structure of the song and makes it more orthodox and stirring. Dr. Iyer unfortunately missed it. Thekritihas attractive inbuiltsangathiswhich bring out both metrical and melodic beauty.The anupallavi is the ideal place forneravalandswarakalpana, which Dr. Iyer successfully indulged in. It must, however, be commented that his approach inmanodharma sangithalikealapanaandswarakalpananeed more attractive design if it has to be made more striking and pleasurable. Nevertheless, Dr. Iyer has all the qualities of a professional singer.Prasad, yet another amateur violinist who accompanied Dr. Iyer, is a popular young artiste who can adequately meet the demands of promising young musicians and his contribution on the day was impressive. Srinivasagopalan on the mridangam put in his expertise to make the concert even more attractive.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/29
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/29/stories/2006092901830300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/29/images/2006092901830301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDr. Ranganatha Iyer in performance
p14
ss.