(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe same difference!
p3
sVnews
p4
VANJANA RAJANAt times everyone wants to be different. At others, we all desperately want to be the same. Certainly, when it is used in a positive sense, everyone seems to be at pains to be different.So much so, the syndrome has affected the classical music world too. Even organisers of classical music festivals declare their event is unique, different from the rest. As for doing things differently, though, Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma should know. That he was the one who brought the santoor into the limelight as an instrument to play Hindustani classical music is common knowledge.There are other `firsts' to his credit. Like his collaboration with flute maestro Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia on the thematic album Call of the Valley, way back in the 1960s. The vocabulary of the music industry had not incorporated big-sounding words like thematic compositions yet, and the album  -   a work he refers to with an amused air as in "the last century"  -   was a hit on the strength of its highly melodious content."These days this word `different' is misused, or it has got a different meaning. Whenever you listen to a musician playing the same raga or the same composition, each time it is different, underlined," he emphasises. It all depends on the ambience, the audience, the mood of the artiste and the listeners, besides their receptivity.With stalwarts like him constantly innovating, some things manage to remain virtually unchanged. One of these is the concept of time that guides the playing or singing of the ragas of Hindustani music. Over the last two decades, as thematic festivals become a trend, one hears increasingly of morning raga festivals, since the ragas meant to be performed during the early part of the day are rarely otherwise heard. Is it however, necessary to adhere unwaveringly to the time restrictions in a globalised world?A mindset"I feel both ways," muses the maestro. "Firstly because these traditions have been going on for centuries, musicians and listeners have a certain mindset. At the same time, concerts are often held in auditoriums, where the atmosphere is the same whether it is morning or daytime or evening." In such cases, he is open to the idea of performing ragas without reference to the actual time of the day. "If this (schedule of ragas) is to be followed, it should be held outdoors," he suggests. "Last January I gave a concert at St. Xavier's College. It was held out of doors and started at 6 a.m. At that time of year, it is still dark at 6. By 7 o'clock it starts to get lighter. In such situations you can see the difference."This is something musicians can discuss, he feels, since "it is something psychologically ingrained in our system."Funny how such concepts have remained sacrosanct while others get light treatment. Take words like guru, gurukul, gharana  -   words that are bandied about in TV shows that spin out `stars' every few months through contests. The maestro feels the makers of these shows are blindly following the Western concept of reality shows and ignoring the traditional ethos associated with such vocabulary. "These words have very deep meaning for us. I think they are giving the wrong message. Okay, let them do what they like, but it would be better if they did programmes of classical music where such words could be used in the right way." If sponsors really care for classical music, they should come forward to create such shows. This would provide chances for young musicians too. "Unfortunately, it is money, money, money all the time," he rues, adding classical musicians can provide inputs for some TV programmes that would be entertaining as well as edifying.Till such an opportunity comes the way of musicians and masses, though, we will have to be content to look forward to the compilation of recordings of his live concerts, being put together by Music Today. He will also perform in the Barkha Ritu festival this month in Hyderabad and Pune. More of the same? Well, yes, and always different.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/07/07
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/07/07/stories/2006070701920200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/07/07/images/2006070701920201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSAME COMPOSITIONS, DIFFERENT TIMES Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma.
p14
ss.