(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRooted in tradition
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARCarnatic music is undergoing a sea change in recent years and it is hard to find the traditional and conventional style in contemporary music. The passionate desire to win applause has made the artiste include as much of academic and intellectual litter at the cost of music and melody.  It is however gratifying to note that a few like Ramamurthy, who gave a concert  under the sponsorship of Kalasagaram have yet preserved the time-honoured values of the past. Ramamurthy belongs to theparamparaof Ariyakudi and like him the style had vibrant dynamism and moved from item to item with renewed passion. Predominantly based on themadhyamakala(medium paced) format, there was  brevity reflecting the style of Ariyakudi and the relaxed singing had its designed place and time too. The overall layout lead from the simple to the complex all the time being aware of the response of the audience.The items were well chosen both in terms of importance as well as melodic content and some of the items likeVaraliwere evocative of theparampara. Without resorting to popularly pleasing tactics, the chastity of the concert was well maintained and there was no moment when the concert nagged. As a concert, in its entirety as well as in its individual items, the performance was well balanced. Nothing needed to be added  and nothing was found superfluous. Thekritiswere well coined; thealapanawas brief but covered a broad band, theneravalwas to the point andswarakalpanacrisp and attractive.Kalyani ata thala varnamaugured the concert well.MahaganapathiminNaataiandNada sudhainArabhibuilt up the tempo.Varaliwith crunchysangathiscovered thealapanaand thekriti, Seshschalanayakam, with smartneravalandswarakalpanawas a la Ariyakudi. The concert soon calmed down with a moving rendering ofNamakusumaof Thyagaraja in the ragaSri. Thekritihas outstandingraga bhavaand Ramamurthy did full justice to it. The highlight of the concert was the item inHindola. Thealapanahad all the embellishments and thekriti, Mansuloni marmamalucaught the ear of one and all.ParipalinchumaniinSuddha saveriwas wedged in as an entrée to be followed by the main itemSri subramanyaya namastheinKamboji. In every aspect the item was complete and satisfying. The entire concert was to some extent soiled by a couple of lighter items that were not pleasing. The concert was impressive partly because of the rich voice of Ramamurthy, which  travels well and effortlessly.Dinakar on the violin followed up the ideas of the artiste implicitly and added his own imagination, particularly in thealapanaofHindolaandKamboji. Arvind on themridangamis an intelligent player and on the occasion enhanced the dignity of the concert with his imaginative ideas. Thethaniwith Balasubramanyam on theghatamwas a fitting finale to the concert. The performance to a great extent was spoilt by incessant rain and the audience was rather thin.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/08/26
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/08/26/stories/2005082601950300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/08/26/images/2005082601950301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMUSIC & MELODY Ramamurthy retains time-honoured values.
p14
ss.