(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe music of winter
p3
sVnews
p4
VRISHIKESH BAHADUR DESAIWinter is here again and connoisseurs of Bidar are looking forward to a week of variety music performance by artistes of international repute in Manik Nagar in Humnabad. The Sangeet Darbar in the Sri Manik Prabhu Samsthan is part of one of the oldest musical traditions in the country. The Samsthan has been organising music performances for 160 years now. Pioneers such as Abdul Kareem Khan Saheb and Vishnu Digambar Paluskar have performed here.Cultural ambassadors of India such as Bhimsen Joshi, Pandit Jasraj, Hariprasad Chourasia, Rajan Mishra and Sajan Mishra and popular performers such as Zakir Hussain, Sangeetha Katti and Lata Mangeshkar, have also been here.As usual, the music Darbar coincides with the Datta Jayanti celebrations from December 1 to 5 this year. Last year's performers included Grammy winner Vishwa Mohan Bhat, Dhrupad singers Gundecha brothers, the Mishra brothers, Ronu Majumdar and others. This year's performers include a sitar recital by Ustad Shahid Parvez, violin by Dr. N. Rajam, Sangeetha Shankar, Ragini Shankar and Nandini Shankar. There will also be a collage of performances on the last day. Vocalists Shivanand Patil, Sandeep Deshmukhand Sheshappa Gabbur, flute maestro Mohammad Abdulla Quazi, tabla artistes Mohammad Javed and Shantling Desai, thumri performers Kamalakar Paralikar and Isha Gowd will present their skills. That evening's performances will also include sitar concert by Vithalrao Mapare, harmonium solo shows by Rajendra Singh Pawar and Makarand Kundale, and clarionet by Kallappa Jadhav.Yashwant Bua Joshi who has been performing in the durbar for 50 years without a break will be felicitated as Samsthan Darbari Gayak in the finale to this grand, cultural extravaganza.Special pujas, bhajans, homa, and pravachans will also be held.Sri Manik Prabhu, a reformer saint of the 19th century founded a faith based on humanity that treats followers of all religions equally. Even today one can see people of all faiths worshipping Manik Prabhu. Muslims believe Sri Manik Prabhu was the incarnation of Sufi saint Mehboob Subhani of Bagdad. The erstwhile Nizam of Hyderabad, Mehboob Ali Pasha, was a follower of Sri Manik Prabhu. Scholars like Narendra Luther have extensively researched the relations between the Nizam and Sri Manik Prabhu.The present head of the institution Sri Siddharaj Manik Prabhu is the fifth pontiff in the lineage of the founder. The Samsthan now runs 19 educational-cultural institutions including schools for the visually challenged in Humnabad and Raichur and an orphanage. A charity hospital is also coming up in Manik Nagar. In the past five decades, the religious institution has evolved into a centre of Indian studies, and a medium of social and cultural change."Our musical tradition began in 1845. We are trying to continue the glorious heritage," says Gyanraj Prabhu, secretary of the Manik Prabhu Samsthan. "Devotees are expected to arrive from all parts of the State and from Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh," says Anand Raj Prabhu who heads the Manik Prabhu Education Society.Music CDs of last year's performances are available at the Samsthan Ashram. Copies can be ordered by e-mail tomaniknagar@gmail.com.The office can also be contacted by phone (08483-270042). CDs of bhajans and religious discourses in Urdu, Hindi, Marathi and Kannada are also available.The festivities begin from today.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/01/stories/2006120101770100.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/01/images/2006120101770101.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VDIVINE DARBAR  Grammy award winner Pandit Vishwamohan Bhatt enthralled listeners last year
p14
ss.