(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFeast of ghazals
p3
sVnews
p4
VG. SRINIVASANMusic lovers of Thanjavur were treated to a feast  of Hindustani ghazals on Monday, June 19, thanks to the Music Festival 2006, organised by the Thyagabrahma Sabha, Thanjavur. Pandit Vinod Kumar of Delhi  enthralled the audience with his ghazals. He was accompanied by Anis Iqbal on the tabla and Kamal Ahmed on the sarangi. Organised jointly by the sabha and the South Zone Cultural Centre, the programme proved the unity  of India through music.According to Dr. S. Thiyagaraja Sharma, president of the sabha, the North-South barriers disappeared at such festivals.  Pandit Vinod Kumar  was trained by his father N. N. Chopra. A child prodigy, Vinod Kumar  earned the Vadya Visharat and Sangeet Visharat titles from the Sangeeth Vidyapith, Lucknow. He is now the director and Principal of The Hindi Sangeeth Institution, New Delhi. With more than 400 ghazals to his credit,  Vinod Kumar has given star performances at the White House in the U.S.,  played for the Prime Minister's national relief fund and also at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Thyagabrahma Sabha of Thanjavur has been organising music festivals every year since 1942, when it came into being.  Accordingly, this year, the festival began on June 17, Saturday, with the Carnatic vocal performance of  Mahathi.The sabha that  gives equal importance to Thamizhisai and Harikatha had arranged the recital of  Devaram, Thiruvasagam and Thiruvarutpa  by Kudanthai Lakshmanan and Divya Prabandham by T. V. Sundaravalli.   Udayalur K. Kalyana Bhagavathar presented namasankeerthanam.  On (Friday) June 23, which happens to be Maharajapuram Santhanam Memorial Day, Sriram Gangadharan will render a Carnatic vocal concert.  The curtain will come down  on June 25, Sunday.Main objectiveTracing the history of the sabha, Thiyagaraja Sarma said that the sabha was established  with the sole aim of propagating Carnatic music.  Concerts were organised every month then. The first president of the sabha was Justice M. Ananthanarayanan, District Judge of Thanjavur. The monthly subscription for its members was just four annas. "But wholesome music was provided every month and at a time when only the gramaphone was provided  indoor entertainment, for the rasikas crowded the concert hall with great expectations," Mr. Sarma said. The silver jubilee was celebrated during the tenure of S. Alphones, Income tax officer who was the president. "The jubilee began with Mali's flute recital followed by the Bharatanatyam  of Srividya and two plays presented  by R. S. Manohar of National Theatres.  The sabha felicitated Ariyakkudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Maharajapuram Santhanam, Viswanatha Iyer and Veena S. Balachander," Mr. Sarma recalled.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/06/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/06/23/stories/2006062300700300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/06/23/images/2006062300700301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODIOUS: Pandit Vinod Kumar accompanied by Anis Iqbal on the tabla and Kamal Ahmed on the sarangi.  Photo: M. Srinath.
p14
ss.