(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA sea of talent
p3
sVnews
p4
VB.R.C. IYENGARThe Annual Youth Festival of Kalasagaram has brought to fore a host of promising and talented artistes. In the three-day programme conducted last week, Chandanbala Kalyan gave a vocal recital on the first day. The impressive part was her confidence in taking up the most elusive, tricky and thorny episodes and make them sound simple and yet melodious. With a wealthy and deferential voice, the charming axiom in heralapanaand alluring songselection, the facet gave the concert a complete and captivating effect. The commencingata thala varnaminShankarabharanampromptly established her prowess both in terms of ease and precision.Gajananyuthaminchakravakameven so, was a routine affair. The raga,varalisounded a wee bit excessive and thekalapramanaof thekrithi,sechachalanayamwas rather pedantic.Annapurneinsamawas sensitive. It was in thealapanaofkambojiand the following song,eavari matathat Chandrabala came out with her flair and dexterity. The raga had the brilliance of expression and thekrithi, a discipline of pure reason. Theneravalwas easygoing but theswaakalpanawas annoyingly extended with routine calculatedthirmanams, totally devoid of musical elation or delight.  Chandanbala's father Dr. Nataraja Murthy on the violin was not quite in equation with his daughter, while D.S.R. Murthy on the mridangam was classic.Sushma Somasekharan's vocal was an honest attempt to project the best in her. She has a reasonably good voice and equally good imagination. What she is handicapped with is the rightpadanrtharam. After all, she is still young and it is unfair to expect finesse. With goodsrutisense and choice selection, she impressed the audience with traditional design and perfect balance. At such a stage, there is bound to be some amount of nervousness and Sushma did get over it. The best part of her performance was theraga alapanaofbhairaviand the accompanyingkrithi, rakshabettare. With rightkalapramana, and inspiringbhava, she carried the audience with her. It was equally striking in the itemmayamma ani pilachitheinahiri.Sada achaleswaraminbhupalamwas yet another item which was attractive. What she has to improve upon is in heralapanaepisodes providing comprehensive and yet objective design.The support on the violin by M.V.N. Prasad could have been better although Somayajulu did support and encourage the singer all the way. The final day's concert was a vocal recital by 16-year-old Bhavaraju Lakshmi Surya Teja from Vishakhapatnam. A kid of that age participating in a full-length concert is incredible. What she did in the two-hour concert was the best one could do.She has the talent, a rich and pliable voice, courage and good imagination. Her confidence in developing theraga sahana, which included a rarekrithi, nijamugaof Thyagaraja was not only practical but also logical.Thodiwas well presented but the songkoluvamaregadawas a hurried effort.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/24/stories/2006022402070300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/24/images/2006022402070301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSushma Somasekharan
p14
ss.