(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VBreezy rendition
p3
sVnews
p4
VSattiraju Venumadhav is blessed with an amazing voice, musical sense and grammar. He has already got recognition as a composer and singer of rare Annamayya kirtanas. And, he is also well known as a Carnatic musician.He presented compositions based on Anjaneya swamy at a concert organised by Venkat Arts Academy at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha. Kolanka Saikumar on violin and Palivela Vidyasagar on mridangam accompanied him.Venumadhav opened the concert with a Nata composition of Deekshitar -Pavanathmaja - the piece gave good momentum with his breezy swarakalpana. The next one was Nela Minnu Okkataina in Gowla of Annamacharya.This was set to music by Rallapalli Anantha Krishna Sarma. It was a simple rendition. So were the other keertanas of AnnamacharyaAnjaneya Anilaja in Arabhi, set to music by G. Balakrishna Prasad; Padiyaaru Vannela in Varali, set to music by Sandhyavandanam Srinivasa Rao; O Pavanathmaja in Sriragam, set to music by G. Balakrishna Prasad and Kalasa Puramukada in Vasantha with brief ragam and swaram followed by Ide Sirasu Manikyam in Ramakriya of Annamayya.Thyagaraja compositions Bantureethi Koluvu - Hamsanadam was the main number of the whole concert depicting how Thyagaraja imagined the place of Anjaneya in Srirama's life.He delineated the ragam Hamsanadam and took good time in singing the raga in all its octaves.The swaraprasthara he did later in the same number was quite imaginative. Jayamu Manadi of Annamayya, his own musical setting in Hamsadhwani was pleasing. Sundara Muruthi in Amrithavarshini of Purandaradasa, Okkade Ekanga Veerudu in Thodi of Annamayya, were with swarakalpana he rendered on the occasion.He concluded the concert with the popular Mangambudhi Hanumantha in Valaji also of Annamayya, he himself set to music. Kolanka Saikumar on violin lent complementary touches while playing the main raga Hamsanadam. Vidyasagar's mridangam was uniformly good.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/25/stories/2009122550430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/25/images/2009122550430301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPERFECT MELODY Sattiraju Venumadhav.
p14
ss.