(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMere voice manipulation
p3
sVnews
p4
VSVKCarnatic music is generally acclaimed as the repository of beauty, grace and sukham but the Purvikalyani raga alapana of Madurai Seshagopalan at Asthika Samajam was mere bounce and brigas signifying nothing aesthetic. The heady phrasings and pace in the tara sthayi were just a display of vocal ego as if music is mere voice manipulation. Versatility notwithstanding, Seshagopalan should  pay more attention to soothing smoothness even if it means underplaying his vidwat.The kirtana, "Parama Pavana Rama" was another pompous interpretation. The other items that received the same treatment were "Hechchariga" (Yadukulakambhoji), "O Rajoo Puchu" (Kannadagowla) and "Marugelara" (Jayantasri).It was left to the rasikas to filter the harshness of bowing by violinist Chandrasekharan to enjoy his presentation. His attempt was aimed at matching Seshagopalan's robustness. Both failed to look beyond the phrasings to visualise the most precious rakti aspect of sangita.The percussive support by Thanjavur Subramaniam (mridangam) and Purushottaman (kanjira) receded in making their presence felt.Felicitous voiceThe performance of Lakshmi Rangarajan had a full measure of balanced presentation observing all the classical norms. With her felicitous voice, the faculty of moderation helped her interpretation of kirtanas and raga alapanas with vividness and consistency.Lakshmi Rangarajan directly transferred her years of performing experience in the picturisation of the ragas Pantuvarali, Sahana and Todi. Their characteristic shades were well directed through the interplay of karvais and refined sancharas. Though the Pantuvarali alapana was simple and unpretentious, Sahana was replete with its bhava inducing listeners to sit up and take notice of its development. The phrasings were sharply precise.Lakshmi Rangarajan's daughter Subhiksha shared a part of Pantuvarali vinyasa.  Violinist Usha Rajagopalan's response to the vocalist's Sahana was equally invigorating. Imaginative capacities gave Usha Rajagopalan's creative process more than mechanical expression.In the rendering of songs one has to weigh stridency against their emotional base. When she sang the kritis, "Ennagaanu Rama Bhajana" (Pantuvarali), "Yaro Ivar Yaro" (Bhairavi), "Rama Ikanannu" (Sahana) and "Sitapathe" (Kamas), their emotion was well conceived, invoked and experienced.The success of a mridangam accompanist lies in percussive restraint. Manoj Siva lived up to this guideline.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/04/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/04/28/stories/2006042802660600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.