(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VWith his musical vision intact
p3
sVnews
p4
VM.V.RAMAKRISHNANAs everyone knows, Sangita Kalanidhi (Treasure of Music Art) is the most coveted title conferred by the Music Academy every year on a single senior Carnatic musician who presides over its winter music festival. It is not usual for three Sangita Kalanidhis to perform together in a concert, but that was precisely what one saw happening in Hamsadhwani the other evening, vocalist Madurai Seshagopalan being flanked by violinist M. Chandrasekharan and mridangam-player Vellore Ramabadran. A good occasion to reflect a little on the credentials of the newest member of the Kalanidhi Club, apart from reviewing the performance!Strength and weaknessThe inherent strength and weakness of Seshagopalan's art were summed up by this writer long ago in the following comments in a couple of reviews published in theEvening Newsin New Delhi when he was just emerging as a young and outstanding Carnatic vocalist: ``Why does one think Seshagopalan is a genius? Because he has an unusually colourful imagination which enables him to sing even the most familiar ragas like Thodi, Kalyani or Sankarabharanam in an entirely new and fresh manner... With his infra-red musical vision he sees a rainbow where even most of the other great musicians can see only a plain sky... Add to this his rich and pliable voice and technical skill of a very high order, and you have a near-perfect performer..." (1974).``From beginning to end Seshagopalan spent all his energies on giving us a demonstration of his unlimited vocal dexterity, as if it was necessary. Accompanied by the towering violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman, the young man seemed determined to prove that his voice is as flexible and far-reaching as the sound of the violin in the hands of any master... And so he kept flying up and diving down, and he did come out of it all in one piece. He ran a neck-to-neck race with one of the world's most skilful violinists, but somewhere along the track he lost his wonderful musical vision... This is not the first time in Carnatic music that a genius has been trapped by his own technical brilliance in this fashion..." (1976).Seshagopalan has multiplied his accomplishments in the 30 years which have passed since then, but he is still a relatively young man with realistic dreams of accomplishing much more. He plays the veena and performs Harikatha kalakshepams, and hopes to sing Hindustani music also in due course. Meanwhile, as a Carnatic vocalist he remains as brilliant as ever, and is still vulnerable to being carried away by his own technical virtuosity sometimes.Restraint and reverenceThe Hamsadhwani concert was totally dedicated to the intricate compositions of Muthuswami Dikshitar, which called for intense concentration on the part of the musicians and listeners alike. Accordingly the singer was in a very subdued mood, which was reinforced by the orthodox style of the veteran violinist and the well-known soft and silky touch of the mridangam vidwan. Pronouncing the difficult Sanskrit lyrics with perfect clarity and elegance, Seshagopalan sang with great restraint and reverence.And his colourful musical vision prevailed, particularly when he rendered the kritis `Soundara-rajam' (Brindavana Saranga), Hariharaputram (Vasantha) and Amba Neelayadakshi (Neelambari.)In fact, so intense was the concentration that when there was a power failure for 15 minutes plunging the semi-outdoor venue in darkness and disabling the sound system, the musicians went on performing calmly and the audience sat transfixed in pin-drop silence and listened. And the music sounded so authentic without amplification (and with the gentle unobtrusive accompaniment) that one could almost indulge in the fanciful thought that it was Dikshitar himself who was singing, and not Seshagopalan.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/02
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/02/stories/2007030202100600.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/02/images/2007030202100601.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VT. N. Seshagopalan.
p14
ss.