(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTarangam music festival
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe 13 {+t} {+h} mini music festival of Namasankeertana Tarangam organised by Thirupoonthuruthy Sri Narayana Tirtha Swamigal Trust at the renovated Sringeri Parvachana Mandiram, at Raja Annamalaipuram, between December 11 and 13, began with Veda Parayanam and the chanting of Vishnu Sahasranamam by the All India Vishnu Sahasranamam Cultural Federation. A. Ramji, patron of the Trust welcomed N. Gopalswamy, former Chief Election Commissioner, who presided, B. Madhavan, secretary, Madras Sanskrit College, who inaugurated the event, and H.S. Ramani, former chief secretary of Rajasthan, who was the guest of honour.Ramji mentioned that the three dignitaries are well-versed Sanskrit scholars, and hence appropriate for a function of Taranga Nama Sankeertanam. Dr. D. Ramakrishna, reader in Sanskrit, Andhra University, Vijayawada, delivered a well-researched talk on the Advaita philosophy of Narayana Tirtha. This was followed by a recital of tarangams by Neyveli Santhana Gopalan and veena duet by J.T. Jayaraj Krishnan and Jayashree Krishna. In the afternoon Bhairavi and Malavi gave tarangam songs.ComprehensiveOn the second day Dr. Subhashini Parthasarathy presented a comprehensive programme of tarangams which brought out the essential teachings of the Upanishads. A presentation by Jayalakshmi Subramanian and students of Kala Darsana vividly portrayed scenes from Sri Krishna's life as visualised in Sri Krishna LeelaTarangini. Divya Nama bhajan was presented by V.V. Kalyanaraman, V.V. Radhakrishnan and party.On the concluding day, Radha Kalyanam was performed in a traditional manner. The title, &#8216;Nama Sankeertana Seva Ratna' was conferred on A.V. Jayaraman, vice chairman, All India Vishnu Sahasranama federation, by R. Krishnaswami, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha, and a trustee of Narayana Tirtha Trust. R. Vaidyanathan, general manager (Planning), Indian Overseas Bank, distributed prizes to the winners (senior and junior categories) of the Tarangam singing competitions.&#8216;Ghorakavi' Sampat Kumar from Hyderabad, an expert in the traditional style of rendering of tarangams, in Andhra Pradesh, demonstrated the nuances of this style, which emphasised the bhakti-aspect of Narayana Tirtha's compositions in Bhajana sampradaya.This was followed by a recital by Shankar Ramani from the U.S. Dr. M. Balamurlikrishna who attended the concert appreciated the efforts of the Trust in propagating Narayana Tirtha's musical genius. Wishing the proposed project of the Trust to renovate the Jeeva Samadhi of Sri Narayana Tirtha at Thirupoonthuruthy, a great success, he offered to give the inaugural concert after the renovation is completed. He presented mementos on behalf of the Trust to senior mridangam vidwan Trichur Narendran, Shankar Ramani, Sampath Kumar, V. Narayanan, Aravind, Vijayasri and G. V. Krishnayya.Kamala Murthy gave a musical discourse on Narayana Tirtha's life. The function concluded with Anjaneya Utsavam. Thirupoonthuruthy Venkatesan, the managing trustee, thanked all who made the event successful and appealed for liberal donations to enable the organisation to conduct such events in future.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/12/18
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/12/18/stories/2009121851430700.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/12/18/images/2009121851430701.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VTITLE: `Nama Sankeertana Seva Ratna' being conferred on A.V. Jayaraman, by R. Krishnaswami, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha.
p14
ss.