(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDedicated to young artistes
p3
sVnews
p4
VVeena concerts are becoming rare these days. At one time  learning Veena was the second best choice after vocal. But Veena still carries a celestial appeal. This is one reason that maestros in this art like Ananda Rajyalakshmi are worried that it may become extinct one day.To keep the interest alive, Rajyalakshmi and others launched an organisation Sumadhura Sangeetha Sourabham, purely with the intention of teaching and promoting young talent in this art form and  feature them along with seniors in music festivals. Ananda Rajyalakshmi is presently working as lecturer in the Government College of music and dance, Hyderabad. She belongs to the famous Vasa tradition of veena players. She is the disciple of the late  Vasa Krishnamurthy, a legend in this field.As part of the programme, the new sabha organised a concert of Ananda Rajyalakshmi at Thyagaraya Gana Sabha. She put to view once again that rare style of Vasa family, which is well-known for its flowing style that is marked with ease and a total control over the fret board.She began the show with aValaji Varnam, and then went to Dikshitar'sMahaganapatiminGowlaas an invocation. She then went  on to essayHamsanadamfor Thyagaraja's famous numberBantu Reeti. This was also marked by fluentswara prasthara. AfterNiravdhi SukhainRavichandrikaand a fineSarasaangidelineation forNeekela Dayaradu, she played the instrumental delight and briskRaghuvamsainKadana Kutuhalamand presented some interestingsangaties.Kharaharapriyawas the main melody of her concert, which she delineated with comfort and displayed some virtuoso skills on her instrument. Her choice in this was Thyagaraja'sChakkani Rajamargamu,which she played with a vocalist touch. This piece was  with that inevitabletanam, scholarlyneravalandswara prasthara.The end pieces included a sweetYamunakalyanipieceKrishna Nee Beganeand aRageswari Tillanaof Lalgudi. For a change, Ananda  played a famous folksyYenki Pata-Padavelli Potondiof Nanduri Subba Rao, which she herself set to music. Ananda had good support from M L N Raju of Vijayawada on mridangam and Haribabu of Guntur on ghatam.At a brief function held on the occasion, the chief guest, Dr. C. Narayana Reddy conferred  Rajyalakshmi with the title `Veena Vadana Vibhushita'. Mahamahopadhyaya Dr. Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Dr. Mudigonda Veerabhadriah and Veena duo Ayyagari Syamasundar and his wife Jayalakshmi were felicitated to mark the inauguration of the new Sabha.Memorable concertThere was a rare violin solo performance last week by `Kalaimamani' A. Kanyakumari, at Thyagaraya Ganasabha, organised by Sangeetha Ksheerasagara Sabha as part of the celebrations of 93rd jayanthi of Uppalapati Ankaiah, known as Sangeetha Ksheera Sagara. Kanyakumari's was a rare appearance and most valued too for she treated the audience to a pure musical note and mellifluous music. Though from Andhra Pradesh, she moved to Chennai, along with her parents, where she is settled now. She is considered  one of  the top violinists of the country.The entire concert gave an electrifying touch with a never heard feel. She is rarely seen as soloist. Audience enjoyed the entire show, to their heart's content. Kanyakumari was the student of Ivaturi Vijayaeswara Rao of Vishakapatnam and after moving to Chennai, she was tutored by M. Chandrashekharan. Sangeetha Kalanidhi M.L. Vasanthakumari had always had Kanyakumari as her accompanist. This also helped her (Kanyakumari) grow further. She was playing for MLV for nearly two decades. She cut gramophone records for HMV. Her own contribution in any concert always carried special flavour.Kanyakumari began with an exercising Natakuranji varnamChalamelaraand thenMahaganapathim(nattai), in which her swara presentation was of outstanding quality. Reetigowla was the first raga essay from her, which she dealt with in great detail.Nannu Vidachi Kadalakura, a Thygaraja composition was her choice presentation in this.Bhuvaneswari(mohana kalyani) was a quickie before she chose to delineate elaborately the raga essayEntha Muddu Enta Sogasu(bindumalini). The raga was neatly built, spreading it across all the three ocataves.Santamuleka Soukhyamu Ledua vilambakala kirtana was another delight.Vanchatonu Naa(karna ranjani) was a brief presentation before she took up bhairavi as her showpiece of the concert. She playedBalagopalalawith ragamalika swaras.Then there were Annamacharya compositionYedutanunnadu' (bujangini), a Tamil composition of Rajajai and a Desi Tillana of Lalgudi in the concluding part of her deserving show. At one stage she volunteered to play whatever the audience wished for. Anuthama's violin support was balanced while D.S.R. Murthi on mridangam lent wonderful support. It was a memorable concert.G. SBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/03/23
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/03/23/stories/2007032300260300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2007/03/23/images/2007032300260302.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAnanda Rajyalakshmi during their performances.
p14
ss.