(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIndian rhythm in Carnatic music
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARI GUDIPOODI SRIHARIThe South Indian Cultural Association (SICA) is celebrating its 46th annual art festival. In the absence of the facilities at Ravindra Bharati,  SICA chose the more spacious Lalita Kala Thoranam at  the Public Gardens. Though this move proved to be wise since it could  accommodate more music lovers, the train horns on the adjoining rail track and the oil smell  from the mirchi vendors could not be avoided. This year's festival avoided featuring the reputed drama troupes of Chennai. Looking at the audience turnout, the response to the festival appeared to be rather  good.. The eight-day festival opened with a mellifluous Carnatic vocal by renowned singer `Bombay' Jayashree. After renderingMayateeta Swaroopiniin Mayamalavagowla, she went on to presentO Jagadambaof Shyama Sastry in Ananda Bhairavi. The raga carried a distinct appeal. Then she sang a Tamil composition in Malayamarutham -Nadayadam Sollai.Arunachala Kavirayar's composition figured later. It was aVilambakala kirtana. The line `Pilachite Matladarada' was appealingly rendered in manysancharies.Neevada Neganain Saranga was another delight. The main attraction wasKambhojiwith a detailed elaboration, followed by a majesticO Rangasayi. Thenerevalat the charanamBhooloka Vaikunthawas appealing and the swaraprasthara in variegated rhythmic spells was captivating.Gopalnath's saxophone:Kadiri Gopalnath tamed a western musical instrument, the saxophone so well to the Carnatic idiom, that he has become  a hot choice for any music festival. But it appears that the contact mike he added to his wind instrument made his play so loud that it became unbearable. Added to that, there was a hi-fi  sound system. Violinist A. Kanyakumari accompanied him.  She  intelligently played in a lower octave to that of Saxophone's pitch, to keep the two sounds distinguishable. When they were playing together,  the picture of the raga was a bit hazy. But when it was Kanyakumari's  turn  to present a brief version of the raga with equal speed, the violinist  played the raga  perfectly, earning great applause from the audience as reward. Her presence too elevated the general appeal of the concert. This could be seen in the main melody of the concert -Kharaharapriya. The presence of Tavil, played by Denkanikottai Mani, also added its own appeal. And this could be seen when a brief but effective brisk play of Tavil opened the Gopalnath's raga essay ofKharaharapriya, the showpiece of the entire concert. Gopalnath began withPranamamyahamin Gowla, with briskswaras.Bahudariwas his first raga effort for Brova Bharama.Endaro Mahanubhavuluin Sriraga, proved a welcome presentation because of its popularity. After an experimental `Niroshtya' Raga, Karnaranjani, for Muthiah Bhagavathar'sRaja Raja Raajithe, Gopalnath went forKharaharapriya. A composition of Annamayya played in this raga was quite pleasing. Thenerevalandswaramin this were well presented. A. Purushotham on kanjeera and Rajasekhar on morsing were the other accompanists.Sister actPriya Sisters &#151;  Shanmukha Priya and Haripriya &#151;  performed on the fifth day of the 46th Annual Festival of SICA, held at Lalita Kala Thoranam. The sisters were at their best, choosing the compositions with care and rendering them with clarity. It wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that their performance was one of the best in the festival so far.The sisters are gifted to render flawless vocals and sing in sync with each other. They began withsaranga varnamand sangGanesha Sthutiin Hamsadhwani.Maanamu Leda, Abhimaanamu LedainHamir Kalyani, a composition of Thyagaraja, was notable for the sahitya content.The raga essay of Mukhari by Haripriya was the first composition to be presented in the evening, and it was extremely appealing.Sarasiruhanana Ramacarried devotional appeal in its expression of Sahitya. The other composition of Thyagaraja &#151;  likeGjnanamosgaradain Poorvikalyani &#151;  were presented with briefneravalandswaram.Sri Kamalambike, a Navaavarana kriti, a rare composition on the deity of Sriragam, was also presented by the sisters, before they took up majesticThodias their main effort of the evening. The sisters shared the presentation of all the technical features of this composition -Dasarathi Nee Runamu Teerpa naa tarama' of Thyagaraja. The way they rendered thepallaviwith differentsancharieshighlighted the appeal of that line - the devotee wondering how he could ever pay back the debt to the Lord.The swaraprasthara in it also turned out to be another draw. Mysore Srikanth on violin and Pungalam Subramaniam on mridangam lent able support.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032401500300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/03/24/images/2006032401500303.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VBombay Jayashree stretches a note
p14
ss.