(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VA roller coaster ride
p3
sVnews
p4
VLALITHAA KRISHNANTwo voices &#151;  one, thin and needle-sharp, the other, husky and more full-bodied, resonating as one, two evolved musical sensibilities tuned to the same wavelength, and an eloquent vocabulary representing the fruit of untiring practice and considerable skill &#151;  all these contributed to the heady amalgam whipped up by Ranjani and Gayathri in their vocal concert featuring the compositions of Ambujam Krishna at the Music Academy.The sisters flagged off a roller coaster of a musical ride that cruised along deceptively simple stretches, before snaking through adventurous bends and plummeting into daring freefalls with miraculous landings from which they emerged unscathed, thanks to their background and experience as highly accomplished instrumentalists, an advantage that guaranteed them an uncontested claim on the intricacies of swara and laya.`Perinbam Verariyen' in Chakravagam was a pace-appropriate rendition. The swaraprasthara at `Urugi Urugi' with emphasis on the dhaivata, benefited from a gradual build-up followed by multi-layered patterns.Off the beaten trackThe choice of `Maathaada Beganaiyya' (Devagandhari) in Manipravalam was certainly off the beaten track. With their brand of sensitivity and firmness, the sisters painted a portrait made remarkable by tonal modulation. Yet, this composition, heavy with promise, could have been so much more, if the bhava highlighted by vocal manipulation had been additionally complemented by an inward-turned perception.The highpoint of the recital was Gayathri's alapana in the raga Ranjani, an infusion of distilled quietude and sparkling texture, spilling over with lyrical passages.Arun Prakash's scintillating strokes on the mridangam contributed significantly to the vibrancy of the composition, `Kaathiruvenu' and the neraval.The main raga, Todi, a shared effort, saw Ranjani handling the initial suite which was stockpiled with core prayogas to form a sturdy base. Gayathri's reign in the tara sthayi of the alapana acquired high definition through a spell of impassioned singing. The neraval in the composition, `Gathi Neeye' exuded poise and courageously explored novel aesthetic dimensions while the kalpanaswaras were an example of meticulous planning and effortless execution. The artistes revelled in the scope for melody afforded by the lighter pieces, especially in the bhajan set to raag Basant.V.V.S. Murari on the violin responded with fluid ease in the melodic segments and picked up the gauntlet with alacrity during the swara sallies. K. Arun Prakash and Tiruchi Murali provided percussive support of a high order.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/09/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/09/15/stories/2006091503150500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/09/15/images/2006091503150501.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSAME WAVELENGTH: Ranjani and Gayathri
p14
ss.