(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDisciples thank guru
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe concert by Kartika Triveni was a good finale for the day&#8217;s programmeThe vocal concert rendered by G. Annapoorna and K. Madhavi at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram, Vijayawada, in connection with theAradhanotsavamof late Lanka Venkateswarlu, a reputed guru, was a pleasing affair. Lanka Venkateswarlu produced a large number of disciples who are now placed well in the field of music. He worked as instruments in-charge at G. V. R. Government College of Music and Dance for more than 20 years. He was also an expert in repairing and setting to tune musical instruments like violin, tambura and veena. TheAradhanawas organised by his disciples and family members.Annapoorna and Madhavi started their concert withNavaragamalika varnamand followed it up withAbhishta Varada(Hamsadhvani),Sarasijanabha Sodari(Naga Gandhari),Manasu Nilpa(Abhogi) and athillanain Behag. The two did not show much manodharma but their voices blended well to please the audience with their keertana renditions. R. Vijayalakshmi gave good support on the violin. Eight-year-old K. Aravind, who played the mridangam, was brilliant, showing ample promise for his future. His tani stood out as a highlight of the concert.The next item in the evening&#8217;s programme was the colourful felicitation of veteran mridanga plater Dandamudi Ramamohan Rao, who has earned international repute and also received Rashtrapati Award.The felicitation was followed by two more brief concerts. The first one was a vocal duet by Katyayani and Sai Sudha Keertana, grand children of the late Lanka Venkateswarlu. They renderedSukhi Yevvaroin Kannada,Telisi Ramachintanato(Poornachandrika) andTelisite Mokhamuin Revathi. R. Vijayalakshmi and K. V. Kishore gave good support on the violin and mridangam, respectively.The interesting concert by experienced singer Kartika Triveni was a good finale for the day&#8217;s programme. Triveni sports a fine voice and sings in a neat traditional style. Her raga and swara versions showed a good grasp of the raga bhavas.  P. Nandakumar (violin), K. V. Kishore (mridangam) and K. Vishnumurthy (ghatam) gave the vocalist fine instrumental support.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/09/12
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/09/12/stories/2008091250320200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.