(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VThe Lalgudi odyssey continues
p3
sVnews
p4
VSULOCHANA PATTABHIRAMANSri Krishna Gana Sabha celebrated the Golden Jubilee of its art festival and the 75th birth year of vidwan Lalgudi Jayaraman. After the felicitations by dignitaries, Lalgudi presented a splendid violin concert with his son  GJR Krishnan and granddaughter Samyuktha, who was making her debut. Tiruchi Sankaran on the mridangam and Neyveli Venkatesh on the kanjira were in charge of percussion.It was during the first art festival that three generations of the Lalgudi tradition  were present in the auditorium. On that occasion, Lalgudi's illustrious guru and father, Lalgudi Gopala Iyer, was in the audience and Lalgudi Jayaraman and son Krishnan on the performing platform.Most rewardingDuring the outstanding musical odyssey of Lalgudi, this event on  January 26  would have been the most rewarding, as the sixth generation artiste of the Lalgudi lineage, Samyuktha, had the privilege of being introduced to the kutcheri stage by none other than  Lalgudi himself.From the beginning of the Charukesi varnam composed by the maestro, till the final strains of the mangalam, a meditative, contemplative ambience was established. Mysore Vasudevachar's "Pranamamyaham" in Gowlai with a brief spate of swaras, neat and compact, was an excellent example of how an impressive beginning is half the job done.  Saraswathi received such melodic treatment from Lalgudi's violin that it reiterated his reputation of being an Alpha to Omega musician &#151;  especially when he nourished the alapana with enchanting panchama varja prayogas.Although heard time and again, "Anuragamuleni" of Tyagaraja, with Sankaran's superb support, had a refreshing bearing.  Samyuktha's sweet exposition of Hindolam revealed her musical sensibilities. "Manasuloni," a kriti of Tyagaraja, the solfa efforts of the three artistes &#151;  Lalgudi's innovative and imaginative, Krishnan's rich and authoritative and Samyuktha's accurate madhyama kuraippu with the korvai making a smooth landing on the tarmac, were potent rhythmic displays.Lalgudi Gopala Iyer's composition in Mohana Kalyani was rendered with a fascinating charm.  Krishnan's Kharaharapriya was the brilliant blue chip, studded with time-honoured, luminous sancharas.  "Chakkani Raja Margamulundaga"  was played with a regal mien and invested with melody, laya perfection and involvement.The madhyama kala swaras reflecting the quintessence of the raga and the dhurita passages including the immaculate dhaivata kuraippu by Krishnan were stellar efforts. All credit to Samyuktha for meeting the challenge of the seniors with aplomb. To sum up &#151;  pedigree speaks.Sankaran, an outstanding vidwan on the mridangam, and Neyveli Venkatesh, propelled by the unrivalled quality of the music, presented a tani avartanam charged with glowing rhythmic patterns.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/02/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/02/03/stories/2006020302410400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/02/03/images/2006020302410401.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMEDITATIVE AMBIENCE: Lalgudi Jayaraman (centre) flanked by son Krishnan and granddaughter Samyuktha.  Photo: R. Shivaji Rao.
p14
ss.