(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPerfect synchronisation ofbhava, laya
p3
sVnews
p4
VP. VIJAYAMABIKAWith his grand lineage, his  mastery over handling intricateswarapatterns  and perfect sychronisation of ragabhavaandlaya, T.V. Sankaranarayanan mesmerised therasikasof Palakkad.  He has once again proved that he is unique inmanodharma swaraprasthara,especiallyswaraswoven into sarvalakhu pattern.The Thirupurakkal Nrutha Sangeethothsavam in connection with the Puthur Veda festival began with an excellent vocal concert by T.V.S.Musical heritageBeing the successor of a rich musical heritage, the imprint of his illustrious uncle and guru  -   the  Madurai Mani Iyer Bani  -   was evident throughout the concert without it being blind imitation. His excellent alignment with sruthi, his vibrant voice easily traversing through tharasthayi notes, perfection in alapana and rendition of kritis with rhythm, grace and melody were admirable.T.V.S began with `Jaya Jaya Ganapathi Mangalakari' of Sree Ganapathi Sachidananda Swamigal in raga Hamsadwani set to Adi tala. Cascadingmanodharmaswarasenchanted the audience.Next came the beautiful `Mamavasada Janani' of Swati Tirunal in raga Kanada set to Roopakam tala. Theswaraprasthararevolving around the tharasthayi Panchamama for more than five minutes amazed therasikas. The maestro brilliantly selected two compositions of Papanasam Sivan dedicated to Lord Guruvayurappa and Lord Ayyappa in ragas Chakravakam (Adi tala) and Mukhari (Misra Chappu) and sang with utmost piety, creating a contemplative mood.Rendition of raga Kalyani was classical and virtuous. In a composition of Pallavi Gopala Iyer, `Needu Charana Pankaja mula' (Adi tala), a delectable Niraval at `Om Jagajjanani Manonmani' and thekalpana swarasthereafter enchanted his listeners.`Sree Mathrubhootham,' a composition of Muthuswami Dikshitar in raga Kanada, was followed by a melodious but briefvarali alapanaand the famous composition of Papanasam Sivan `Kavava Kanda vava.'The raga chosen for detailed rendition was Kamboji. The manner in which he handled  the raga and stressed the tharasthayi phrasings with consummate ease, elegance and discrimination was proof of his skill.Nagai Sreeram  complemented the vocalist on the violin. Nagai Sreeram on the violin, mridangam maestro Kuzhalmannam Ramakrishnan and Nagercoil Rajarajan on the ghatom accompanied the maestro.  The thaniavarthanam of Ramakrishnan and Rajarajan was excellent.The Bharathiyar song `Vellai Thamarai Pooviliruppal' was followed by his masterpieces, the soul stirring Tamil Virutam and concluded with the rhythmic Western note.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/05/05
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/05/05/stories/2006050500350300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/05/05/images/2006050500350301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSOUL STIRRING: T.V. Sankaranarayanan.
p14
ss.