(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VFilms with accent on human dignity
p3
sVnews
p4
VFEBRUARY IS the month of romance and Tollywood's latest release "Kadhal" is drawing crowds in droves.   Surprisingly  the Temple City film lovers also  went  crazy over a special screening of foreign films at Madura College this past week. The films screened  were not new releases, but well-known  classics.February is annually celebrated as  Black History Month in the U.S., to mark the anniversaries of great African-American pioneers and institutions.What started as the Negro History Week in the second week of February in1926 to draw  national attention to the contribution of Black people in  American history, is now   celebrated in any country that has fought for human rights and dignity.  With Film and Philosophy as a subject in the P.G. course in the  Department of Philosophy, film screenings at Madura College are a regular affair.This time round, the department chose to highlight the Black African-American month.  "We thought of showing post-modern films relating exclusively to human dignity and emotions and sensitising viewers to racial and other worst elements of power politics," says Dr. R. Murali, Head of the Department of Philosophy,  barely able to conceal his happiness over the "overwhelming response" to the show."Color Purple"The films chosen for the festival had one thing in common. They were powerful and moving portrayals of discriminatory practices and racial segregation that the Blacks faced.Based on Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize winning novel of 1982-83, "Color Purple" (directed by Steven Spielberg in 1985), a two-and-a-half hour film is a classic example of great cinema.The masterfuladaptation stars Whoopi Goldberg, in her impressive screen debut, as Celie, a sharecropper's daughter living in rural Georgia. The film opens in 1909 when Celie is a young girl, a victim of incest, pregnant with her father's child. Ugly and unloved, separated from her children and her sister, Celie's becomes the wife, maid and slave of an abusive and philandering husband.It is the resilient and spirited Celie's story told through letters to God where she questions Him about her life, her roles as a daughter, sister, wife and a mother. Nominated for 11 Academy Awards, "Color Purple" also marked the debut for Oprah Winfrey."Lumumba"The other film "Lumumba," directed by Raoul Peck in 2000, features Congo's history. Often compared to Oliver Stone's "JFK," the film is based on the true story of  African Nationalist Leader and first Prime Minister of the Independent Republic of Congo, Patrice Lumumba, played by Eriq Ebouaney.Combining tribal and ethnic conflicts, the director renders an emotional and tautly woven account of Lumumba's movement. The film festival, organised in collaboration with the Madurai-based film society, Yadharthaa, had originally planned to screen three films, including  Spike Lee's 1992 release, "Malcolm X," the biopic of the famous but controversial Black leader. But the first two screenings and the discussions with a much involved audience took so much time, that the third screening had to be dropped. "The movies were amazing," said several members of the audience. " Simple yet stunning," said some others.They unanimously agreed that they are a "must see" for all those interested in humanity, equality, justice, history, politics and true freedom.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/02/25
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/02/25/stories/2005022500650200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/02/25/images/2005022500650201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VA scene from "Color Purple" ... a classic example of great cinema.
p14
ss.