(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusical homage to gurus
p3
sVnews
p4
VAn annual and much-awaited musical event in Vijayawada was the five-day musical homage to the great gurus Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu and his guru and prasishya of Thyagarajaswamy, Susarla Dakshinamurthi Sastri. Both the legendary gurus dedicate\u000adly taught many disciples in traditional gurukula system. Padma Vibhushan Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna is one of the many who were taught by Parupalli.The sishya prasishyas of Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu organised the 91st aradhana of Susarla and 58th aradhana of Parupalli for five days at Sri Sivaramakrishna Kshetram with participation of a number of vocalists and instrumentalists who belonged to the parampara of the legendary gurus. The first day&#8217;s concerts started with a brief vocal duet by Bharathi sisters Swarnabharathi and Chaitanya Bharathi.Anjana Sudhakar, an experienced singer with fine voice and style, and her talented daughter Sruti Ranjani impressed the audience in the second concert with their coordinated and melodious singing. They rendered a keertana of Swathi Thirunal in Subhapantuvarali, and a rare and lively compositionKaruninchutain the raga Sindhumandari. B.V. Durgabhavani and K. Sai Giridhar provided fine support on violin and mridangam respectively.In the final concert of the day T.K.V. Ramanujacharyulu, a reputed violinist and a staff artiste of All India Radio, Tiruchirapalli, presented an excellent solo treat with support from his daughter Ramapriya. Starting with a crisp Hamsadhvani varnam Ramanujacharyulu followed withRara Mayinti dakain Asaveri and the popular Abheri keertanaNagumomuwith aesthetic approach.  Mahadevu Lakshminarayana Raju&#8217;s mridangam tani at the end of the main item was a treat.Mahati and Priyanka impressed with their vocal duet rendering Durbar varnam andMarugelarain Jayantasri with Chandrakant and Raghuram Hari aiding them well on violin and mridangam respectively.The evening concerts were vocals by Gudipati Janaki of Tenali, veena recitals by K. Lakshmisooramma followed by Emani Lalitha Krishna, a versatile artiste who is also adept at playing guitar, gotu and other instruments. Lalita Krishna played Syamasastri&#8217;s majesticswarajathiin todiRave Himagiri kumariin a sumptuous manner. S. Prasad gave good support on mridangam.On the third day, some of the impressive items wereNeerajakshi Kamakshi, the Hindola keertana of Dikshitar rendered well by K. Madhavi with fine swaras andAnniyunu(Hamsadhvani) andPavanaguru(Hamsanandi) rendered efficiently with good manodharmam by P. Nandakumar of Guntur. Nandakumar was accompanied on violin by Satish Babu and Suresh Babu on mridangam.K. Aravind, talented young mridangam player impressed while playing for his mother K. Madhavi. The last concert of the day was a pleasing vocal by experienced singer of Rajahmundry, Tulasi Viswanath. She rendered sumptuous Kambhoji andEvarimatawith appealingraga bhava.On the last day morning, there was a thrilling Thyagaraja Pancharatna Brindaganam rendered by 50 prasishyas of Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu. Thebrinda ganamwas followed by an excellent vocal concert by Modumudi Sudhakar, composer and staffer of All India Radio, Vijayawada. He started withRaghuveera Ranadheerain Husseini and followed withKalalanerchinain Deepakam and unfolded the grandeur of Devagandhari before rendering the keertanaKsheerasagara Sayana. The main itemVasamain Dharmavathi was also superbly rendered. B.V. Durgabhavani and Dandamudi Sumathi Ramamohan Rao gave fitting support to the vocalist on violin and mridangam.The final concert was a thrilling violin ensemble by Annavarapu Ramaswami&#8217;s disciples B.V. Durgbhavai, P. Nandakumar and Satish Babu.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2009/07/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2009/07/03/stories/2009070350630200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2009/07/03/images/2009070350630201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VRemembering the legendsRamanujacharyulu performs as part of the five-day event.
p14
ss.