(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVirtuosity in harmony
p3
sVnews
p4
VSAJNI V. SAHADEVANAs the first strains of the cello slit through the silence that lay heavy with anticipation, the audience found themselves transported to a world of enchanted music created by Nicolas Paul. A sonata of Bach was played to perfection as a solo; the bass instrument sounding as beautiful as its graceful curves that reflected the amber lighting in the hall. Nicolas played the cello as if in a trance with hardly a glance at the music notes he had before him. For a gold medal winner in cello and now the first solo cellist in the Orchestre Avignon Provence, why not?A duet by Beethoven followed with Julie Arnulfo, his partner on the violin and in life. Five years ago, the two met at many chamber music concerts until finally they decided to play together. "We share the same passion for music and complement each other," Julie gushed in the little English she spoke.Her observation held true for their music too. The two French players exchanged musical dialogues with spontaneity, eyes locking occasionally for the right cue, as Beethoven sounded merry and mischievous.Julie started playing the violin at the age of nine. She was also awarded a gold medal for excellence in violin. Her concerts include Quatuor a cordes (string quartet) and Chamber Orchestra under the direction of violin maestro Yehudi Menhunin."It was one of his last concerts and a very emotional one for me," she recalled. She now plays with the National Orchestra of Montpellier as a second soloist.The flow of musicThe next duet, a composition of Handel, `La Passacaglia,' touched a range of emotions as the music flowed as if in hushed whispers and then a burst of excitement. "La Passacaglia is a favourite of Indian audiences for it's joyful mood," noted Julie."The next one was composed by Ravel in memory of another great composer Debussy and so is called `A la memoire de Debussy.' This is important to us as Ravel is a French composer and through this we bring to you some music from France," explained Julie. She provided a narrative at the start of every composition they played.At it's best, Ravel was ambrosia for the soul. How else could plucking the strings of a violin and cello communicate so much emotion? The composition, at times, sounded high on drama and suspense like the challenge of war that lay in a drum roll.The duo also played compositions by Mozart and Haydn before treating the music aficionados to an encore with Edith Piaf's `La vie en rose' drawing much applause and cheers.Organised by Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, the French embassy and HSBC Bank in the capital city, this was the couple's fourth concert after programmes in Bhopal, Pune and Ahmedabad.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/12/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/12/08/stories/2006120800470300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/12/08/images/2006120800470301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VPARTNERS IN MUSIC: Julie Arnulfo and Nicolas Paul exchanged musical dialogues with spontaneity.
p14
ss.