(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VRendezvous with raags
p3
sVnews
p4
VChandramandala is all about ambience. The abode of Chandralekha, erstwhile high priestess of the arts and dancer extraordinaire, this haven of tranquillity on Eliot's Beach Road is an irresistible draw for the aesthete. Tree-shaded stone courtyards and cool interiors with tiled roofs welcome the visitor. Small wonder then that Prakriti Foundation chose the open-air theatre here as the venue for a three-day Bettiah Gharana festival.Well conceptualised with alternating sessions of lectures and concerts, the series was flagged off by festival curator Sumitra Ranganathan's succinct introduction highlighting the Gharana's salient features. Accompanied by M.Narmadha (violin) and Apurbalal Manna (pakhawaj), veteran vocalist Pt. Indra Kishore Mishra embarked on alaap, drupad and dhamar, his soft tone complemented by the robust voice of young daughter, Jaymala. The duo illustrated a series of leisurely glides of Malleswari raag, evoking clear, simple motifs that put the voice through its paces for smoothness and pliancy in gradually widening swirls and whorls.Demonstrating two types of gamaks, those emanating from the throat and the stomach, Pt Mishra aroused audience interest with the vibrations of highly stylised gamaks in a decidedly interesting display of virtuosity. The unfolding of the dhrupad replete with ornate passages invoked ancient echoes.The accelerated pace highlighted the dynamic structuring of sahitya to taal in &#8216;Har Har Mahadev' dwelling on Lord Siva's attributes. The succeeding item transmitted intense energy with characteristic gamaks and strong enunciation lending points of emphasis. In Dhamar, the syllables were finessed by technique, yet retained a raw power. In marked contrast, a wash of tenderness coloured the compositional richness of a Chaturang, celebrating the glory of goddess Kali in a melodic trajectory of sahitya, rhythmic syllables and swaras.The Swaramalika dipped into hues of swaras resting on laya variations. And finally, it was the prayerful &#8216;Bhavani Dayani' (Bhairavi) that stilled the senses and let the soul speak. Violinist M.Narmadha's responses drew appreciation from the vocalist.Many influencesIn a lecture outlining the socio-economic and cultural conditions from the 18th- 20th century in Champaran district of Bihar, Mihir Kumar Singh, secretary, finance, Government of Bihar, explained that ancient Bettiah saw a confluence of Buddhist and Hindu influences, particularly from neighbouring Nepal. Conquests brought in southern influence as well. Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan granted parganas to Bettiah's zamindars who consolidated small kingdoms. A local ruler and patron of the arts, Raja Ugrasen, laid the foundation for musical activity in the Bettiah court. The 18th and early 19th century saw the Gharana flourish under poet kings such as Naval Kishore Singh and Anand Kishore Singh. A strong colonial presence arising from local rajas' support to the British ensured peace and plenty. However, the incurring of vast debts and surrender of lands to the British who used them for indigo plantation, resulted in a decline in prosperity and patronage.With the vicissitudes of time imposing economic hardships, only a handful of traditional practicing dhrupadiyas remain today.DisciplinedOpening with an alaap in three clearly defined stages, Pt. Falguni Mitra also presented a bandish (composition of Prabhu Sinha). Raag Behag unfolded in disciplined, measured progression.Excursions in the mandra sthayi were set off by closely woven passages in madhya sthayi highlighting the interplay of the two madhyams with the pancham. Heavily oscillated gamaks emulating the rhythmic tolling of a bell embellished the languid glides of the Gaudhar bani and the simpler lines of the Dagur bani.Pt. Mitra threw light upon the meaning of sahitya. The poet describes Radha bedecked with flowers and ornaments, the sheer grace of her form and gait, on her way to meet Krishna. The lyrical structure was complemented by the sonorous resonance of Apurbalal Manna's pakhawaj and a variety of rhythmic permutations.A composition of Suraj Singh (son of Tansen) in raag Adana, describing the triumphant return of Rama from Lanka, was rich in detail, infused with the energy of veer rasa. Celebrating the spirit of spring was a piece in raag Shuddh Basant, not often heard in concerts.Pratima Mishra's play of notes on the harmonium was deft.Tracking a traditionSumitra Ranganathan is a woman with a mission. This research scholar from the University of Berkeley, California, is determined to revive and propagate the ancient Dhrupad tradition of the Bettiah Gharana. In her doctoral thesis &#8216;The Bettiah gharana: Dhrupad tradition as interpretative practice,' her work is based on direct interaction with the few surviving inheritors of the genre in Bettiah, Bihar.Distinct features&#8220;I am a student of this tradition, having learnt khayal and dhrupad from Pt. Falguni Mitra. Since 2006, I have travelled to Bettiah, spending at least three months a year in India, both learning and doing research,&#8221; says Sumitra. &#8220;This gharana has a uniquely rich repertoire of Dhrupad compositions in the four bhanis of Dhrupad. Features include the manner in which gamaks are produced, importance accorded to sahitya, clear enunciation and distinctive laya motifs. Four musicians - Falguni Mitra, Indra Kishore Mishra, Rajkishore Mishra, and Arun Kumar Mishra and their students -- are at the heart of my project.&#8221;Delivering the introductory lecture, Sumitra explained that her investigation of origins revealed that this bani had no single founder or uniform style. There was considerable diversity in musical practice, yet coherence in style. Of three basic origin theories, the first conceives this gharana as an offshoot of Tansen's Seniya gharana, with Pyar Khan Seniya training Bettiah rulers as Dhrupadiyas who went on to compose in the four Dhrupad styles and train othersSumitra says, &#8220;Tracking transmission of tradition, memory and patronage is an essential part of my work. Although present day Bettiah is economically challenged, culturally and geographically isolated, things were different in the 18th century when this area was rich in cross-cultural influences.&#8221;With loss of patronage in the late 19th century, traditional musicians migrated to greener pastures such as Benares and Kolkata. &#8220;Thus, today, there are dhrupadiyas descended from traditional music families in rural Bettiah as well as urban musicians distanced from their links to the lineage. The aim is to bring them together. The traditional dhrupadiyas' strength of conviction stems from their contribution to composition. For instance, Pt. Indra Kishore Mishra's forefathers were the actual tunesmiths of the lyrics penned by the maharajas.&#8221; Expressing her admiration for their staunch refusal to yield to the pressures of standardisation, Sumitra revealed, &#8220;Some of these artists will return to a house with neither electricity nor running water, basic amenities that one takes for granted. So, this festival was all the more important for staging these musicians who have struggled to keep their practice vibrant and rich in the face of grave economic hardship.&#8221;Sumitra expresses her gratitude to those who facilitated her research and these concerts. &#8220;My project has been shaped integrally by the guidance of my thesis supervisor Prof. Bonnie Wade and other professors at UC Berkeley, and I have greatly benefited from discussions with Dr. Ashok Ranade, Prof. Richard Widdess (SOAS, UK), Shri Gajendra Narayan Singh, Dr. Rai Anand Krishna, Shri Kartik Lahiry, Dr. N. Ramanathan and Prof. Amlan Dasgupta. I am indebted to Prakriti Foundation for their invaluable support in organizing this festival. Their participation and complete involvement helped bring the artistes to Chennai for the first time.L.K.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2010/02/19
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2010/02/19/stories/2010021951010200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2010/02/19/images/2010021951010202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VSumitra
p14
ss.