(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VJugalbandi with Anup Jalota
p3
sVnews
p4
VBIBHUTI MISHRAJugalbandi is one musical treat that every music buff looks forward to with eager anticipation. And if it involves artistes of the same calibre, complementing each other and even engaging in one-upmanship, the audience is sure to be thoroughly regaled. Sanskar, a new cultural outfit floated by ace musician Prafulla Kar, took the bold step of organising ajugalbandifeaturing renowned singer ofbhajansandghazals, Anup Jalota, and Mahaprasad Kar, a singer of repute. Pradeep Ghose and Rocket Mandal from Kolkata provided the musical accompaniment on the tabla and the guitar respectively while the young and talented Abhiram Nanda played the flute. The first session devoted to Hindi and Oriya bhajans began with Mahaprasad singing poet Jayadeva's famous piece fromGeetagovindam,Rati sukha sari. Anup Jalota, in his typical style, regaled the jampacked house with his well-knownbhajanslikeAisi lagi lagan meera ho gayi magan,Payoji maine ram ratan dhan payoandPag ghungroom bandh meera nachi thietc. Mahaprasad often gave him company and did a good job with a traditional Oriya songMana Matila Retraced to the days of Sri Chaitanya. The second session had Mahaprasad singing Odissi songs while Jalota belted out ghazals. Mahaprasad opened with a famous Odissi numberAja dekhili go nabeena bayasi balabut one wished he had not tried improvisation on the traditional tunes with gimmickysargamsandtaans. Jalota responded with a highly romanticChand angadaiyyan re raha ai chandi muskurane lagi hai, which had such touching lines likeAshq ankhon mein aaye to pile, dil jo roye to hothon ko sile,ai mohabbat teri ansoon pe hansi unko aane lagi haiby Raaz Ilahabadi.Sanskar is a centre for creative global music but it is not clear why thejugalbandiwas hosted under the banner `East Meets West' unless the reference is to eastern India, i.e. Orissa, and western India, i.e. Mumbai, that Jalota hails from. Mahaprasad is a young artiste of competence groomed by his father Prafulla Kar himself. But a seasoned performer like Jalota overshadowed him in ajugalbandi. But if, as Prafulla Kar says, the objective was to showcase the talent of singers here by presenting Mahaprasad with Anup Jalota, the programme was well worth the effort.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/15
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/15/stories/2005071501010200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/15/images/2005071501010201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VMELODY TIME Anup Jalota strikes the right chord
p14
ss.