(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMozart: a reflection of eternity
p3
sVnews
p4
VSARAH HIDDLESTON``It's like in nature: Nothing is missing and nothing is too much: it's just the point."Signum Quartett will perform on November 11, 7.15 p.m. at The Music Academy.``The music of Mozart is of such purity and beauty that one feels he has merely found it &#151;  that it has always existed as part of the inner beauty of the universe waiting to be revealed." &#151;  Albert Einstein.Despite the sometimes vitriolic critique of Mozart's contribution to Western classical music emanating from some quarters in Europe, Mozart's popularity today, 250 years after his birth, is a recognition of his genius. It is not just that `everyone loves Mozart.' It is not just that the great minds of the last two centuries, including Einstein, Goethe, Kierkegaarde, Nietzche, Bertrand Russell and George Bernard Shaw, considered Mozart to be technically brilliant and spiritually moving. Nearly all composers following him have recognised that he was a master of the genres of his age, amongst them Benjamin Britten, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Debussy.Joseph Haydn, Mozart's contemporary, once exalted, ``If I could only impress on the soul of every friend of music...  how inimitable are Mozart's works, how profound, how musically intelligent, how extraordinarily sensitive!"Beethoven once acknowledged that he would never write anything as beautiful as Mozart's Piano Concerto in C minor (K491). Stravinsky is said to have learned the art of the use of dissonance from Mozart.In 18th century Europe, private concerts from distinguished musicians and composers were very much in vogue at court and among aristocratic circles. This established fixed musical ensembles from a variety of instrumental combinations and produced demand for an intimate style of music, which earned the catch-all ``chamber music."Mozart produced an impressive body of chamber music that developed the work of his contemporaries. His string quartets, in particular, demonstrate his remarkable aptitude for combining complex musical argument with intense personal expression.Simplicity is the keyFor the Signum Quartett from Germany, the magic of Mozart's music is the reflection of eternity in life. But, says Thomas Schmitz (cello), the key to his music is in its simplicity: ``It's like in Nature: Nothing is missing and nothing is too much: it's just the point."The group will play the String Quartet in F major (K 168), String Quartet in D minor (K 421), and the String Quartet in C major "Dissonance" (K 465). Each is significant in Mozart's development of the form. The first in F was composed in 1773 after Mozart moved to Vienna and is notable in its departure from Mozart's early Milanese style; it is more complex, adds greater contrapuntal layers and incorporates a fugal finale. The others form two of six quartets dedicated to Haydn, with whom Mozart played in several quartet performances and from whom he is though to have learnt the musical language of four equal partners. Written in 1783, K421 is one of only two string quartets in a minor key. It is dramatic, baroque and, especially in the third movement, displays some of the chromaticism present in his later work.The final piece, written in 1785 is perhaps the most famous of all his string quartets and does away with criticisms of Mozart's work as merely light and pleasant. Its extraordinary opening is notable for its emotionally unsettling dissonant counterpoint.While this was not always appreciated by his listeners at the time ("too highly seasoned to be palatable" was the response of one contemporary German critic), today it is considered to be a pathbreaking composition.Thomas Schmitz (cello) and Annette Walther (violin) have been playing together since they were at school. Kerstin Dill (violin) joined them four years ago and they spotted Valentin Eichler (viola) at an international chamber music festival two years ago. They have studied under the auspices of many European masters, but are most influenced by the Alban Berg Quartet and the Artemis Quartet. The Signum Quartett has played extensively for audiences across Europe. Its performances have been hailed as refined, masterful, intelligent, passionate and sensitive. Their rendition of these Mozart quartets, so open to differences in interpretation and performance style, should prove to be a rare treat for Chennai.The concert is in association with Max Mueller Bhavan, Goethe Institut, and sponsored by Lufthansa. It will be presented again on November 12 at Adishakti Laboratory for Theatre Art Research in Pondicherry.Presenting sponsor:Geojit Financial Services Ltd.Associate sponsors:Bose, Kingfisher Airlines, RmKV, AVT Premium.Hospitality sponsor:Taj Connemara.Event Manager:Show Space.For ticketsSeason tickets: Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 1,500. Daily tickets: Rs. 500, Rs. 300 and Rs. 100. Available at Landmark (Nungambakkam, Spencer Plaza, City Centre). To book online: log on towww.thehindu.com/novemberfest.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/11/03
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/11/03/stories/2006110301960500.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/11/03/images/2006110301960503.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VA RARE TREAT ON THE CARDS:  Signum Quartett.
p14
ss.