(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMoving with simple harmony
p3
sVnews
p4
VTheir first offering was the fifth of Haydn&#8217;s String Quartets Op. 76. Its technically demanding first movement sounded almost like the early Beethoven in terms of texture and bravado. Its second movement is the reason for this piece&#8217;s nick name, the Largo (slow). The other three movements of this quartet are not at all slow, but this movement, Largo: cantabile e mesto (Slow: singing and sadly), is understandably celebrated: more singing or sadly compelling music one would not wish to imagine: it was indeed haunting. Passages of unison and solo playing giving way to the simplest harmony proved to be very moving.The quartet&#8217;s third movement, labelled Minuetto (a little minuet) sounded, again like Beethoven, more like a scherzo than a minuet, and with a much more dark and pensive trio. The fourth movement with a folk-like theme, very fast indeed, belied the nickname of the whole piece, and the work ended with an innocent sense of jubilee.The composer J&#246;rg Widmann as a young man (he was 24 when he wrote this, his first String Quartet) was, like almost all composers, awed by the weight of tradition that this particular musical form commands. So, humorously, he began his Quartet with the viola and then second violin attempting to bow, but stopped the moment they lay their bows on the strings, struggling to make, but not making any musical sound. It is up to the first violin to begin the actual music-making with a long held high note.The piece then unfolded in a number of sections, sometimes repeating, sometimes not, which proved to be an encyclopaedic essay on the various techniques possible in string playing. One wouldn&#8217;t call what the players did to be extended technique, because all the sounds they made, one has heard in music of Bart&#243;k at the beginning of the 20th century, and even in music of the 19th century as well, but all these techniques were used in close proximity, and in kaleidoscopic, constantly changing combinations. Listening to the piece closely kept one guessing: I thought there was going to be a cadenza for each instrument, but as it turned out, the most pyrotechnic passage, played by the viola, was not then echoed by the other players. They all had plenty to do.The piece ended with long and elegiac lines played by one instrument which were interrupted by passages of great energy, by one, two, then three then all playing the most energetic, indeed frantic, passage in the piece, then immediately dissipating quietly in a few luscious chords to end the piece.When a quartet can play a demanding quartet Haydn and immediately address this music with equal care, attention, and ensemble sense, there is no doubt that one is in the presence of very accomplished musicians indeed. One could say that there was no artistic compromise throughout this programme.Not only was the Widmann piece demanding on the ear, but these musicians did not play even old music we might have expected &#8212; of more famous pieces by Mozart or Beethoven. This group of musicians instead decided that they would offer us quartets from three distinct periods in western music, and something to think about from Haydn and Schumann, composers we in Chennai may know, but don&#8217;t often get a chance to hear writing for this combination.Robert Schumann is well known for his symphonies, piano concerti, and song cycles. He is not so well known for his string quartets, and I was looking forward to hearing one of his major works in the form. As Simon Tandree, the quartet&#8217;s violist who hosted the evening, announcing and explaining the music to us, Schumann often wore his heart on his sleeve in his music, overtly romantic.This is a very substantial piece, about 25 minutes long, beginning with a contemplative if passionate movement, followed by a scherzo-like movement designated agitato (agitated) then a loving and beautiful slow movement, and a final movement of symphonic breadth.Germany has been at the centre of the western classical tradition from the 17th  through the 20th  century, and The Signum Quartet represents that heritage very well. They are fine cultural ambassadors for their country.Yet they play this seminal music without a sense of outward show, bravado or vanity. This is the mark, as far as I&#8217;m concerned, of the greatest music making.Thanks to the Max Mueller Bhavan for inviting them again.(randall.giles@gmail.com)
p5
sVdate
p6
V2007/09/28
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2007/09/28/stories/2007092851130400.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.