(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMusic, pure and serene
p3
sVnews
p4
VB. RAMADEVIVasudhaa Keshav entertained the audience at G.K.D. Auditorium, Coimbatore, with her pure and serene music under the aegis of Alapana.Having received training under guru H.S. Mahalakshmi of Karnataka, who belongs to the rich lineage of Tiger Varadachariar, Vasudha presented herself as an embodiment of cool confidence without an iota of ostentation.Throughout her concert, she sang in an unhurried pace, letting the audience soak in the essence of music. Her delineation of Lalitha was absorbing and she presented the kriti, "Nannu Brovu Lalithaa'' bringing out the lilting melody of the raga and the beauty of the composition by Syama Sastri.The phrase, "Ninnu Vinaa Evarunnaaru Gathi Jananee'' lent itself to  a sensitive neraval followed by masterly swaraprastharas. The same was noticeable in the main item in Simhendramadhyamam, "Rama Rama Guna Seema'' by Swati Tirunal.Steady flow of swarasWith a casual countenance, Vasudhaa let the swaras flow steadily like the `thaila dhara' with an ease that has been possible because of rigorous practice. It was no torrential flood. She had absolute control over her voice and gave only what she thought was needed.Her RTP in Kokilapriya, with the pallavi, "Geetha Priye, Sangeetha Priye, Kokila Priye, Geetha Vaadhya Natana'' was a treat.She won appreciation from the veteran artistes who accompanied her for using the complicated tala pattern, `tisra gathi' in the laghu and kanta gathi in the dhrutham without faltering.The slokam, "Namami Narayana Paadha Pankajam'' followed by "Narayana Ninna Namadha Smarane'' by Purandaradasar and the tillana on Raghavendra Swami were proof that she could sing lighter songs also beautifully.The only hitch was that there was too much of serious music. She could have presented a few  lighter kritis.  After the elaborate main piece, the RTP was a bit too heavy, though it was wonderful. Vasudhaa is endowed with a sweet voice that is beautifully aligned to sruti and an enviable vidwat. But her music can appeal only to the elite.M.A. Krishnaswamy's exquisite depiction of ragas on the violin, and the spirited mridangam of J. Vaidhyanathan  certainly added pep to Vasudha's performance. S.V. Subramaniam on the kanjira was equally good.Pleasing and impressiveKovai M.S. Subhashini sang for Nadham, which encourages growing artistes, at Rathna Regent, Coimbatore.Though the take off was not all that impressive, she soon managed to gain control and impressed the audience with her pleasing presentation.She took Purvikalyani and Todi for elaboration and presented "Ananda Nadamaaduvar'' (Neelakanta Sivan) and "Kaarthikeya, Gaangeya" (Papanasam Sivan) respectively.She needs to do more homework in the delineation of ragas and swaraprastharas. "Gam Ganapathe", "Deva Deva Kalayami'', "Sri Rama Saraswathi'', "Swagatham Krishna'', "Nagumomu'', "Ranjani Niranjani'' and "Bho Shambho'' were some of the songs she sang.She also sang a tillana and a Tiruppugazh verse before concluding with "Shaanti Nilava Vendum''.Swaminathan on the violin and Palladam Ravi on the mridangam did a good job.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/08/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/08/04/stories/2006080400080200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2006/08/04/images/2006080400080202.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VVasudhaa Keshav.
p14
ss.