(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VIn memory of  a maestro
p3
sVnews
p4
VM.S. BALASUBRAHMANYA SARMA was a big name in Carnatic music. He was specially known for his excellence in `laya' and was known as "Laya Brahma." There were moments when he gave trying time to percussionists, while negotiating  especially through "swarakalpana" and "nereval." `Ragam-Tanam-Pallavi' had always been a cakewalk for him with difficult moves in `pallavi' and `swara' parts.He was one of the front rank musicians of Andhra Pradesh and a top grade artiste of the AIR and the Doordarshan. He  served TTD as the principal of its music college and  later shifted to a town in Rayalaseema, where he spent his last days. He has plenty of students and Bhamidipati Lalitha is one among them. A talented vocalist herself, Lalitha presented a devotional programme, last week, coupling with them some compositions written and composed by Sarma.The occasion was "Sujanaranjani" organised at Sanathnagar to remember Sarma. Despite his partial blindness,  Sarma made a great name in the entire South India, and had been a "must" in  most music festivals.Lalitha and her disciples presented some  light  classical numbers.  The group also comprised of Bhagi Narayana Sastry, Lalitha Parameswari, Indira, Madhavi with good orchestral support from K.V. Krishna on the violin, Bura Sriram on mridangam and Sridhar on tabla.There was a keyboard too played by H. Kiran. The notable numbers the group presented  included the "Ganapati Stuti" in "Suddha Saranga," written by noted scholar and poet Samavedam Shanmukha Sharma."Jayajaya Vani" in Ragamalika, tuned by the late Popuri, followed this. There were popular  "krithis" of Annamayya &#151;  "Kondalalo Nelakonna" and a rare "Brahma Ganna Vaadu," both  set to music by Balasubrahmanya Sarma.There were also songs written by poets &#151;  Dasarathi and Narayana Reddy, that added solemnity to the concluding part. The singers rendered them individually and in groups.Another musician, the late Poruri Lakshminarasimha Rao, a music director, was also remembered on the occasion and a couple of his compositions were also rendered. He was known to play different wind and string instruments.GUDIPOODI SRIHARIBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/04/01
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/04/01/stories/2005040101430300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.