(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPrasar Bharati's bonanza
p3
sVnews
p4
VK. SASIKUMARTaking timeless classics to the people was the aim of Prasar Bharati when it brought out audio and video CDs and cassettes featuring the masters of Indian classical music and dance.Launched a little more than a year ago, this initiative, under the baton of Prasar Bharati Chief Executive Officer, K.S. Sarma, has hit the bull eye.  "We have a golden collection in our archives, compiled over the last 30 to 40 years. Now with this initiative, people can enjoy these gems from our treasure trove of music and dance as well as preserve them for posterity," says J. Kamalanathan, Station Director, All India Radio, Thiruvananthapuram.The collectionThe collection includes performances of a galaxy of musicians. For the lovers of Carnatic music there are cassettes and CDs of M.S. Subbulakshmi, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, M.L. Vasanthakumari, Alathur Brothers, Musri Subramanya Iyer, M.D. Ramanathan and Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar among others for the taking.For those with a penchant for Hindustani music, there is a two-volume collection of vocal recitals of Pandit Omkarnath Thakur and Pandit D.V. Paluskar. If you are inclined towards instrumental music, there are the collections of Shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan and the greatest of all flautists, Pannalal Ghosh.The fare does not end here. There is a two-volume Qawwaali collection featuring Ustad Aziz Ahmed Khan Warsi and another two-volume Nadaswaram collection. There is also a collection of the renowned violinist Dwaram Venkataswamy Naidu.CDs on danceThe collection on dance forms includes Kathakali, Odissi, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattom, Manipuri, Bharatanatyam and Kathak featuring all the great names from the archives of Doordarshan."The latest additions to the collection were MS, Alathur Brothers and Ariyakudi. The CDs and cassettes were released by Sreevidya, actress and daughter of M.L. Vasanthakumari, at a function in Thiruvananthapuram recently," says Kamalanathan.Right now, the cassettes and CDs are available in Thirivananthapuram Kendras of AIR and Doordarshan in Kerala. "The collections are available in all capital cities across the country. We are thinking of making available the collections at the AIR kendras of Kochi, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Kannur," says R.C. Gopal, Assistant Station Director, AIR Thiruvananthapuram."We are planning to put up a stall right from day one of the Soorya festival scheduled to begin on September 21. There will be a discount on offer too," says Chamiyar, executive producer Doordarshan, Thiruvananthapuram.The counter at the Doordarshan Kendra at Kudapanakunnu is doing brisk sales, he adds.The good news for connoisseurs of music is that there is a discount of 30 per cent till August 31 on all the collections. The VCDs are priced at Rs.207 after discount, ACDs at Rs.137 and cassettes at Rs.67.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/07/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/07/08/stories/2005070802850300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/07/08/images/2005070802850301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VGOLDEN OLDIES: A VCD on Kathakali.
p14
ss.