(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VVeena vidwan  shows skill
p3
sVnews
p4
VGUDIPOODI SRIHARIVeteran veena virtuoso of Mysore Prof. R. Visweswaran is a great scholar too and his play annotated with leisurely grace  is clear and appealing. He also appears to be particular to present a raga in all its forms, as essay, akirtana, thentanamandswaram, each carryingragaflavour. He played just four numbers in a concert he gave last week for Nadabharati at Karnataka Sahitya Mandir that lasted more than two hours. He presentedragaandkritialong with other technical delights. The concert put to view a multi-faceted genius in action.He played on this occasionKamavardhanithat had the touches of its Hindustani equivalentPuriyadhanasri.  This piece, a composition of Purandara Dasa, turned out to be a pleasure to listen to.Raga Devakriyawas another melody and the artiste displayed spontaneity in the delineation of theraga. The composition he chose to play in this wasSri Saraswathi.The thirdragahe opted to play  wasHarikambhoji. This was a scholarly presentation, played evocatively.Rama nannu brovaraof Thyagaraja, a popular number was his choice.Attractive `tanam'Keeravaniwas the fourth melody Visweswaran preferred to play. Thetanamhe did in this was a special attraction. It was out and out traditional in its build and finish. Then came thepallavi, set toAdi talam. ATillanainRaga Kapiwas a lively finish for this concert, for which P. Srinivasa Gopalan lent excellent support on the mridangam.Visweswaran also gave another concert for Nada Sudha at its venue at Bagh Ambarpet. It was a masterly exposition of complexragasbringing out rare beauties with spontaneity. With a single pluck of a string he could produce continuous sound ofswaras, gliding from one to the other.  Visweswaran was at his best when he produced multiple notes over a single fret, with precision.A Srividya Upasaka, Visweswaran presentedraga Vagadheeswariand then played his own composition,Sri Saraswathi Namostutein this.Kanakangishaped into a beauty in his hand.Huseni, for Thyagaraja'sRama Ninne NamminanuandBindumalinifor his own composition were notable.However,Thodiwas the highlight of this concert. But the composition he played was his own.TillanainHamsanandiKrishna Nee BeganeinYamuna Kalyaniwere the concluding numbers. G. Ramachandran's mridangam support was intuitive.Bottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2005/11/04
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2005/11/04/stories/2005110401100300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2005/11/04/images/2005110401100301.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VFAMOUS FOUR The maestro enthralled the audience at both the concerts.
p14
ss.