(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VTracing the roots
p3
sVnews
p4
VThe seminar on Melakartha Ragas of Carnatic music was at the Regional Institute of Education, Mysore, followed by concerts on flute by Prof. Sridhar of University College of Fine Arts and veena performance on melakartha ragas by Prof. R. Vishweswaran.Back to vedasTracing the origin of melakarthas from the Vedic period, Prof. Sridhar gave vivid description as to how the origin of classical music goes back to the Samaveda.Making the Omkara his adhara shruti, he elucidated by rendition of Vedic hymns in archika (single note), gathika (double notes), samika (three notes), svaranthara (four notes), audava-shadava (five and six notes) and the sampoorna mela (seven notes). Raga Kharaharapriya he added, was the first mela derived from Samaveda (though some differ with this data). Rendering the vedic hymn Purusha Sookta vocally followed by flute recital, the delineation of ragas Kanakangi, Ratnangi of Indu-Chakra, Jhankadvani (Veda Chakra), Rasika Priya (Aditya-Chakra) of Melakartha repertory enthralled the audience. Concluding the performance with the composition in 72 melaragas maalika by Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer, the artiste gave brief demonstration of Grama Moorchana system that existed in ancient India.It was an academic session of evolution in Carnatic Music that prevails today that was followed by flute recital depicting the melakartha ragas. In the latter half, Prof. Visveshwaran explained in detail about the importance of gamaka in all the stayis of music depicting the beauty of melakartha ragas on Veena in preference to regular concert.Yuva melaThe three-days Yuva Mela organised by Karnataka Ganakala Parishath at Bidaram Rama Mandira, Mysore, was an effort in the right direction to preserve classical music for the future generation.It gave impetus to several young talents to develop interest in music. Notable among the performances was the veena-violin trio by Sahana, Smith Kiran, and Kumari Sindhu who sustained the interest of audience with their melody and mastery of raga bhava and meticulous delineation of gamaka. Vidwan Ashok on mridanga and Sriram Bhat on ghata rendered perfect support on percussions. However, the vocal concert by Vidwan Srikanth was not impressive. With able accompanists like Hosahalli Subbarao on violin and Ravishankar on mridanga, the artiste dwelt on svara-sangeetha than sublime music.The morning sessions listed for the mela were suladis by V. N. Padmini, rare compositions of Shyamashastry by R. S. Ramakanth, life of Muthuswamy Dikshitar by H. K. Venkatram and manodharma sangeetha by Vidwan T.M. Krishnan.B.S.S. RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/31
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/31/stories/2006033102300300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.