(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VMridangam wiz honoured
p3
sVnews
p4
VLaya Vedika of Vijayawada formed exclusively a few years ago with an aim to provide a platform for Laya Vadyas arranged a glittering function at Gokaraju Laila Gangaraju Kala Vedika at  the huge campus of Government College of Music and Dance, to honour mridangam maestro Dandamudi Ramamohana Rao.The highlight of the function was the presence of Padma Vibhushan Dr. Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, the master musician and composer who, on behalf of Laya Vedika presented a Suvarna Ghanta Kankanam, (golden bracelet) to Dandamudi. In his  six-decade musical career, Dandamudi has accompanied well known musicians all over the country. During the function, he i was also conferred the title `Laya Praveena' by Dr. Balamuralikrishna.In his speech, Balamurali recalled his close association with the master mridangam player  for more than six decades. Besides serving in the Vijayawada Akashvani for more than four decades as a staff artiste, Dandamudi has also produced scores of disciples. He has received almost all the prestigious awards, including the  Sangeet Natak Academy award from  the President of India.Earlier in the morning, competitions  on the  mridangam were conducted  and first prize winner K.Sai Giridhar received his prize from Dr.Balamurali.A rare treatThis month, Mummaneni Subbarao Sidhardha Kala Peetham presented  a melodious Sitar concert by Tadimeti Radhakrishna, a renowned Bangalore based Sitarist. Radhakrishna received his training from maestros like Pt. N.R.Ramarao of Bangalore, Pt. Uma Shankar Misra and the legendary Pt.Ravishankar himself. Radhakrishna has also lent his music for the popular TV serialMalgudi Daysby  R.K.Narayan.In his engaging concert, Radhakrishna played ragasPooryaandKeervaniwith great expertise and command winning  applause from the audience. His plucking was soft and melodious and soothing to the ears. He finished the concert with an item inMisra Khamaj.Masterly tabla support came from Gurucharan Garud, an eminent tabalchi  and the son of the celebrated tabla wizard Pt.Dattatreya Garud. Gurucharan is a Master of Sciences in Physics and Electronics and is working as a senior lecturer in a reputed  college in Bangalore.Nagella Guruprasada Rao, secretary of the Kala Peetham introduced the artistes while  P.L.N.Prasad, the president of the society, honoured them.P. SURYA RAOBottom Template Starts
p5
sVdate
p6
V2006/03/24
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2006/03/24/stories/2006032401340200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.