(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VPedantic, prosaic and failed potential
p3
sVnews
p4
VKannada varnam, a composition of his guru Lalgudi was the opening item.Mahaganapathimin naatai added some tempo but the swarakalpana was not smooth.Brovabharamain bahudri took the audience to the past. The alapana of kalyani was brief and the krithihimadrisutheof Shyama Sastry set to adi thalam, thisra nadai was rendered with ease. Swarakalpana exercises by Ramh need charm and attraction.The highlight of the concert was the excellent playing on the mridangam by Arvind. It was a 20-minute display of fine merit. The event was also equally well supported by Srinivasa Gopalan on the morsing.Singer Vasundhara Rajagopalan is a puritan and her style and format fails to please a common listener.  A generous and elevated mind can only distinguish the thematic content from the pure and pedigree works. Ragas like kedaram, chaya naata, bahudari, kunthalavarali, brindvana saranga, huseni, subha panthuvarali, are all rakthi ragas rigidily restricted to the theme of spiritualism. Amidst such a scenario, the element of madhyamakala thrill is difficult to accommodate. The themes were not compact and not contrasted in easily recognizable sequence. However what she seemed to have lost in the earlier part of concert was fully made up in every aspect in her RTP in ragamalika set to khanda jati triputa thalam. It was not only a scholarly exercise but a bewildering erudition.Sharada Trust has a unique talent in unearthing rare and potential flair. Chimaya Sisters (Uma and Radhika), the duet singers is one. The concert was indeed a pleasant surprise.  However, they still need great experience and only then every feature of the classical art falls in its place. In case of duet singers, there is bound to be some difference in competence and Uma, under the circumstances outshines Radhika, both in terms of voice culture as well as skill.   The highlight of the concert was the alapana of thodi by Uma, which indeed was classic.Akhilandswariin dwijavanthi sounded striking. In their RTP exercise in kalyani set to khandajathi thriputa thalam, the thanam was of poor standard. Shivakumar on the violin and Ramachandran on the mridangam extended the needed support, although the latter was rather vociferous and was more in tune with the thala than the krithis.The much-expected presentation of Ranjani and Gayathri ended up as a tame affair. It was no doubt powerful and penetrating but lacked the pith in the sense, that it was yet another routine rendering. Doubtless they have a glorious voice, vital and brash, their combination of range, singing melody and lithe effortless figuration, swift yet diamond clear, take the breath delightfully away, but on the day, a good part of these features took a nose-dive.Charumathi Raghuram, although very young is well up in playing the violin as an accomplished artiste; perhaps it would be advisable to wait for some more time to take that risk.  Skanda Subramaniam is a veteran on mridangam and his contribution enhanced the poise of the concertSurya Prakash, the disciple of T. V. Shankaranarayan is a constantly eloquent singer.  He disdains the petty emotionalism of fashionable art; he avoids the personal note, and, by doing so, achieves epic grandeur. With all these accomplishments, the blotch strikes hard in mocking the guru by simulation, particularly in the discipline of swarakalpana. His confidence is affluent and the voice deferential, and implicitly chases his mind. Ata tala varnam in bhairavi set off the concert and the krithi, vinayakaninnu in hamsadwani was enough to establish the cadence. Placing the next item in misra chapu tala was a clever move and the songvishalakshiof Dikshithar in panthuvarali kept the listeners glued to their seats. The slow movement ofMayammain ahiri gave most penetrating glimpses of eternity. The raga kiravani was explored threadbare in all its variety and vanity, although the Tamil song was a little out of place. The naada that shiva Kumar produces on the violin is commendable and his follow up is consistently complimentary. Jaya Bhaskar on the mridangam must try to follow the krithis and not just the song; Kapa Srinivasa Rao on the kanjira, added unique flavour.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2008/02/08
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2008/02/08/stories/2008020851520300.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
V
sVcaption
p12
V
ss.