(dp1
Vheadline
p2
VDelving into the devotional
p3
sVnews
p4
VDevotional singing has always been an integral part of Indian classical music, be it of the North or of the South. In fact, music originated and developed in temples and dargahs, and found its place in royal courts much later. All classical singers have always sung bhajans and abhangs. However, it was Kumar Gandharva who took bhajan singing to such artistic heights that it came to be accepted as an independent musical genre. It was a delight to listen to his grandson Bhuvanesh Komkali in the augural session of the three-day Bhakti Utsav that concluded in New Delhi recently. Organised by Seher, a City-based NGO, the Utsav offered an opportunity to music lovers of Delhi to get acquainted with diverse traditions and styles of devotional music in the serene environs of Nehru Park.It was heartening to see that unlike several young singers who are trying their best to ape Kumar Gandharva, Bhuvanesh Komkali made no such attempt. The throw of his voice and certain mannerisms did remind the discerning listener of his illustrious lineage but, on the whole, he was his own master. In fact, he sounded more like his father Mukul Shivputra, an extraordinarily gifted singer whom many consider a genius gone astray. Bhuvanesh sang Marathi abhangs of the famous saint Tukaram with great feeling and kept himself away from needless display of vocal prowess. One hopes that in his onward musical journey, he will imitate his famed grandfather only in the sense that, like him, he too will blaze a new trail, not remaining contented with the much-treaded path. He was ably accompanied on the tabla by Khadak Singh and Jitendra Soin, on the harmonium by Vinay Mishra, on the manjira by Anurodh Jain and on the tanpura by Sandeep Khanduri and Kshitij Mathur.Yet another performer at the Utsav, Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, has over the years matured into a seasoned singer of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana and is a familiar face on the concert circuit. She has complemented her mother Manik Bhide's training with learning from a much-respected scholar-guru of the Jaipur-Atauli gharana, Ratnakar Pai. At the Utsav, she chose to sing bhajans in praise of Lord Shiva with verve. She also sang a composition in Sanskrit and concluded her recital with a bhajan in raga Bhairavi. Though well-rendered, her bhajans sounded like full-blown khayals with the exception of the Bhairavi-based item. As D.V. Paluskar and Kumar Gandharva have shown, bhajan-singing is not to be confused with khayal-singing because both place different kinds of artistic demands on the singers. Moreover, the process of their reception by the audience is also quite different. Ashwini's rendition was a good example of how even flawless singing may not be entirely satisfying because of performing an unintended function. Vinay Mishra provided adequate accompaniment to her on the harmonium while Vinod Lele impressed on the tabla. Anurodh Jain and Ananya and Ananta were on the manjira and tanpura respectively.Aditi Kaikini Upadhya, daughter and disciple of Dinkar Kaikini, made a musical offering to Krishna at the event. She has learnt from the famous singer of the semi-classical genre, Shobha Gurtu, and her influence showed in the way she threw her voice. Aditi began with a bandish in Puriya Dhanashree and followed it up with another in Bhoopali. After this, she chose a slow dadra to describe Krishna's flute-playing and then sang a bandish about Draupadi's seeking Krishna's help. The first two items could be described as Khayal-ang bhajans and her presentation was replete with sargams, tihais and other ornamentations. She has a powerful and sweet voice and is technically very sound. It's not that her singing was devoid of devotional fervour, but one would have felt happier had she placed less emphasis on displaying her technical prowess and more on getting immersed in the bhakti-bhav.Vedic imports tooThe Utsav was a commendable effort on the part of the organisers who brought Manganiyar singers of Rajasthan and Sufi singers of Pakistan together with classical singers on one platform. Their performances were riveting and will be fondly remembered by music lovers for a long time. However, one could sense some kind of a conceptual mix-up as Vedic chanting too was included in the festival. As is well-known, the cult of Bhakti grew in the post-Vedic period, and in opposition to the Vedic ritualism, and the Vedas are not considered to be part of the Bhakti literature. Still, it was an experience to listen to the traditional way of chanting the Vedic hymns as shown by the Namboothiri vidwans.
p5
sVdate
p6
V2011/05/06
p7
sVurl
p8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/thehindu/fr/2011/05/06/stories/2011050650190200.htm
p9
sVphoto
p10
(dp11
g8
Vhttp://www.hindu.com/fr/2011/05/06/images/2011050650190201.jpg
p12
sVcaption
p13
VAshwini Bhide
p14
ss.